
INVOICE

Mailed/Billed to :
Quontic Bank ISAOA &  ATIMA
31-05 Broadway
Astoria, NY 11106

Producer:
Mill Creek Agency
129A Main Street
Stony Brook, NY 11790
Phone: 631-751-4653

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

220516

CCD371639-01
POLICY NUMBER

TERM
FROM TO

09/23/2017 09/23/2018
LINE OF BUSINESS

DP-3
BILL DATE
08/24/2017

BILLING TYPE
Direct Bill

PAYMENT DUE DATE
09/23/2017

PAY IN FULL AMOUNT
$1,621.00

DUE NOW
$1,621.00

INSURED RISK LOCATIONMORTGAGEE
Wings As Eagles Ministries INC
22
Diana Court
Wading River, NY 11792

Quontic Bank ISAOA &  ATIMA
31-05 Broadway
Astoria, NY 11106

FAILURE TO PAY THE AMOUNT DUE BY THE DATE SHOWN
WILL RESULT IN CANCELLATION OF COVERAGE.

For question regarding this bill call:
Please make checks payable to
OCEAN HARBOR CASUALTY INSURANCE
c/o Complex Coverage, Inc.
7 High Street
Suite 408
Huntington, NY 11743-2298

631-547-9175
To pay via Credit Card or eCheck go to

"Pay Online via Credit Cards or eCheck".
www.complexcoverage.com  and click

Payments received after the Due Date will be subject to a $15
late fee.

Please Note: A fee will be charged for payments processed
online.

Premium Fee Total Due DatePaid
$1,621.00 $0.00 $1,621.00 09/23/2017$0.00

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*** PLEASE RETURN THIS PORTION WITH YOUR CHECK ***

POLICY NUMBER
TERM DUE

NOW
PAY IN FULL

AMOUNT
DUE

DATE
AMOUNT

ENCLOSED

CCD371639-01

09/23/2017 To 09/23/2018
$1,621.00 09/23/2017

Insured
Wings As Eagles Ministries INC
22
Diana Court
Wading River, NY 11792

OCEAN HARBOR CASUALTY INSURANCE
c/o Complex Coverage, Inc.
7 High Street
Suite 408
Huntington, NY 11743-2298

Mill Creek Agency
129A Main Street
Stony Brook, NY 11790
Phone: 631-751-4653

Producer

INVOICE NUMBER: 220516

$1,621.00

Please make checks payable to:



  

 
OCEAN HARBOR CASUALTY
INSURANCE

 
DWELLING PROPERTY POLICY

 
 
 



OCEAN HARBOR CASUALTY INSURANCE

Dwelling Policy

Policy No.
Renewal Of:

CCD371639-01
CCD371639-00

Policy Period:   From 09/23/2017 To 09/23/2018
12:01 A.M. Standard Time

Wings As Eagles Ministries INC Agent: Mill Creek Agency

Address: 129A Main Street
Stony Brook, NY 11790

Address: 22 Diana Court
Wading River, NY 11792

Agent Code: M23

The residence premises covered by this policy is located at the above insured address unless otherwise stated below
Location:

Sub-Producer:

Name Insured:

In case of a loss under Section I, we cover only that part of the loss over the deductible: applies to all perils
except where
otherwise

$2,500

Coverage is provided where limit of liability is shown.

Coverage   Limit of Liability Perils Insured Against   Premium
  Dwelling $508,000.00   Fire $977.20
  Other Structure $50,800.00   Extended Coverage $268.91
  Personal Property $100,000.00   Additional Premiums $375.06
  Fair Rental Value $50,800.00

  Forms and Endorsements See Schedule F Attached

Issued Date: 08/24/2017 Authorized Signature

indicated.

  Additional Living Expense $50,800.00
  Personal Liability $500,000.00

  Total Location Premium: $1,621.00  Medical Payments to Others $10,000.00
  Total Policy Premium: $1,621.00  Personal Injury $50,000

Construction
Type

Year Built Territory Prot.
Status

No.
Families

Hurricane Ded.:
1%

Ordinance or Law Occupancy Usage

Frame 1995 46B Protected 1 $5,080 10% Owner Primary

DP Dec Page



This schedule, effective 12:01 A.M. 09/23/2017 forms a part of

Policy No. CCD371639-01

Issued to: Wings As Eagles Ministries INC

SCH-F

Schedule "F" - Forms, Endorsements and Schedules

Additional Credit:
Fire Alarm – Central Reporting

Mortgagee:

Additional Interest:

Form No. Ed. Date Description
DP Dec Page Declarations Page - Dwelling
DP 00 03 12 02 Dwelling Property 3 - Special Form
DP 16 10 01 09 Water Exclusion Endorsement
DL 24 01 12 02 Personal Liability
DL 24 11 12 02 Premises Only Liability
DL 24 16 12 02 No Coverage for Home Day Care Business
CCD 13 MSP 10 14 Mandatory Special
CCD 13 LEF 10 14 Escaped Fuels
CCD 13 FMR 10 14 Limited Fungi
CCD 13 LAF 10 14 Lead Abatement
DL 24 15 12 04 Workers' Compensation Certain Residence Employees - New York
DL 25 31 02 10 Special Provisions - New York
DL 24 86 12 11 Personal Injury - New York
DP 05 31 12 02 Modified Functional Replacement Cost Loss Settlement - DP 00 03
CCD 13 WBU 10 14 Water Backup
CCD 13 FN 10 14 Flood Notice
CCD 13 WDE 10 14 CAT Windstorm Deductible
DP 04 70 12 02 Premises Alarm or Fire Protection System

Quontic Bank ISAOA &  ATIMA
31-05 Broadway
Astoria, NY 11106
Loan #:1602qb010025

DP Dec Page



 DWELLING
 DP 00 03 12 02
 

DP 00 03 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  1  of 15   
 

DWELLING PROPERTY 3 – SPECIAL FORM
 
AGREEMENT
We will provide the insurance described in this policy
in return for the premium and compliance with all
applicable provisions of this policy.
DEFINITIONS
In this policy, "you" and "your" refer to the "named
insured" shown in the Declarations and the spouse if
a resident of the same household. "We," "us" and
"our" refer to the Company providing this insurance. 
DEDUCTIBLE
Unless otherwise noted in this policy, the following
deductible provision applies:
Subject to the policy limits that apply, we will pay only
that part of the total of all loss payable that exceeds
the deductible amount shown in the Declarations.
COVERAGES
This insurance applies to the Described Location,
Coverages for which a Limit of Liability is shown and
Perils Insured Against for which a Premium is stated.
A. Coverage A – Dwelling

1. We cover:
a. The dwelling on the Described Location

shown in the Declarations, used principally
for dwelling purposes, including structures
attached to the dwelling;

b. Materials and supplies located on or next to
the Described Location used to construct,
alter or repair the dwelling or other
structures on the Described Location; and

c. If not otherwise covered in this policy,
building equipment and outdoor equipment
used for the service of and located on the
Described Location. 

2. We do not cover land, including land on which
the dwelling is located.

B. Coverage B – Other Structures
1. We cover other structures on the Described

Location, set apart from the dwelling by clear
space. This includes structures connected to
the dwelling by only a fence, utility line or
similar connection.

2. We do not cover:
a. Land, including land on which the other

structures are located; 

b. Other structures rented or held for rental to
any person not a tenant of the dwelling,
unless used solely as a private garage; 



 
Page  2  of 15 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DP 00 03 12 02  
 

c. Other structures used in whole or in part for
commercial, manufacturing or farming
purposes. However, we do cover a
structure that contains commercial,
manufacturing or farming property solely
owned by you or a tenant of the dwelling
provided that such property does not
include gaseous or liquid fuel, other than
fuel in a permanently installed fuel tank of a
vehicle or craft parked or stored in the
structure; or

d. Gravemarkers, including mausoleums.
C. Coverage C – Personal Property

1. Covered Property
We cover personal property, usual to the
occupancy as a dwelling and owned or used by
you or members of your family residing with
you while it is on the Described Location. After
a loss and at your request, we will cover
personal property owned by a guest or servant
while the property is on the Described Location.

2. Property Not Covered
We do not cover:
a. Accounts, bank notes, bills, bullion, coins,

currency, deeds, evidences of debt, gold
other than goldware, letters of credit,
manuscripts, medals, money, notes other
than bank notes, passports, personal
records, platinum other than platinumware,
securities, silver other than silverware,
tickets, stamps, scrip, stored value cards
and smart cards;

b. Animals, birds or fish;
c. Aircraft meaning any contrivance used or

designed for flight including any parts
whether or not attached to the aircraft. 
We do cover model or hobby aircraft not
used or designed to carry people or cargo; 

d. Hovercraft and parts. Hovercraft means a
self-propelled motorized ground effect
vehicle and includes, but is not limited to,
flarecraft and air cushion vehicles;

e. Motor vehicles or all other motorized land
conveyances. 

(1) This includes:
(a) Their accessories, equipment and

parts; or 



 
DP 00 03 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  3  of 15  
 

(b) Any device or instrument for the
transmitting, recording, receiving or
reproduction of sound or pictures
which is operated by power from the
electrical system of motor vehicles
and all other motorized land
conveyances, and its accessories.
Accessories include antennas, tapes,
wires, records, discs or other media
that can be used with any device or
instrument described above.

The exclusion of property described in 
(a) and (b) above applies only while
such property is in or upon the vehicle or
conveyance. 

(2) We do cover motor vehicles or other
motorized land conveyances not
required to be registered for use on
public roads or property which are: 

(a) Used solely to service the Described
Location; or 

(b) Designed to assist the handicapped; 
f. Watercraft of all types, other than rowboats

and canoes; 
g. Data, including data stored in: 

(1) Books of account, drawings or other
paper records; or 

(2) Computers and related equipment;
We do cover the cost of blank recording or
storage media, and of prerecorded
computer programs available on the retail
market; 

h. Credit cards, electronic fund transfer cards
or access devices used solely for deposit,
withdrawal or transfer of funds; 

i. Water or steam; or
j. Gravemarkers, including mausoleums.

3. Property Removed To A Newly Acquired
Principle Residence
If you remove personal property from the
Described Location to a newly acquired
principal residence, the Coverage C limit of
liability will apply at each residence for the 30
days immediately after you begin to move the
property there. This time period will not extend
beyond the termination of this policy. Our
liability is limited to the proportion of the limit of
liability that the value at each residence bears
to the total value of all personal property
covered by this policy. 

D. Coverage D – Fair Rental Value
1. If a loss to property described in Coverage A, B

or C by a Peril Insured Against under this
policy makes that part of the Described
Location rented to others or held for rental by
you unfit for its normal use, we cover the fair
rental value of that part of the Described
Location rented to others or held for rental by
you less any expenses that do not continue
while that part of the Described Location rented
or held for rental is not fit to live in. 
Payment will be for the shortest time required
to repair or replace that part of the Described
Location rented or held for rental. 

2. If a civil authority prohibits you from use of the
Described Location as a result of direct
damage to a neighboring location by a Peril
Insured Against in this policy, we cover the Fair
Rental Value loss for no more than two weeks. 

3. The periods of time referenced above are not
limited by the expiration of this policy. 

4. We do not cover loss or expense due to
cancellation of a lease or agreement. 

E. Coverage E – Additional Living Expense
1. If a loss to property described in Coverage A, B

or C by a Peril Insured Against under this
policy makes the Described Location unfit for
its normal use, we cover any necessary
increase in living expenses incurred by you so
that your household can maintain its normal
standard of living. 
Payment will be for the shortest time required
to repair or replace the Described Location or,
if you permanently relocate, the shortest time
required for your household to settle
elsewhere. 

2. If a civil authority prohibits you from use of the
Described Location as a result of direct
damage to a neighboring location by a Peril
Insured Against in this policy, we cover the
Additional Living Expense loss for no more
than two weeks. 

3. The periods of time referenced above are not
limited by the expiration of this policy. 

4. We do not cover loss or expense due to
cancellation of a lease or agreement. 

F. Other Coverages
1. Other Structures

You may use up to 10% of the Coverage A
limit of liability for loss by a Peril Insured
Against to other structures described in
Coverage B. 
This coverage is additional insurance.



 
Page  4  of 15 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DP 00 03 12 02  
 

2. Debris Removal 
We will pay your reasonable expense for the
removal of: 
a. Debris of covered property if a Peril Insured

Against causes the loss; or 
b. Ash, dust or particles from a volcanic

eruption that has caused direct loss to a
building or property contained in a building. 

This expense is included in the limit of liability
that applies to the damaged property. 

3. Improvements, Alterations And Additions 
If you are a tenant of the Described Location,
you may use up to 10% of the Coverage C limit
of liability for loss by a Peril Insured Against to
improvements, alterations and additions, made
or acquired at your expense, to that part of the
Described Location used only by you. 
This coverage is additional insurance.

4. World-Wide Coverage
You may use up to 10% of the Coverage C
limit of liability for loss by a Peril Insured
Against to property covered under Coverage C
except rowboats and canoes, while anywhere
in the world. 
Use of this coverage reduces the Coverage C
limit of liability for the same loss. 

5. Rental Value And Additional Living Expense
You may use up to 20% of the Coverage A
limit of liability for loss of both fair rental value
as described in Coverage D and additional
living expense as described in Coverage E. 
This coverage is additional insurance.

6. Reasonable Repairs
a. In the event that covered property is

damaged by a Peril Insured Against, we will
pay the reasonable cost incurred by you for
necessary measures taken solely to protect
against further damage. 

b. If the measures taken involve repair to other
damaged property, we will pay for those
measures only if that property is covered
under this policy and the damage to that
property is caused by a Peril Insured
Against. This coverage does not:

(1) Increase the limit of liability that applies
to the covered property; or

(2) Relieve you of your duties, in case of a
loss to covered property, as set forth in
Condition D.2. 

7. Property Removed
We insure covered property against direct loss
from any cause while being removed from a
premises endangered by a Peril Insured
Against and for no more than 30 days while
removed. 
This coverage does not change the limit of
liability that applies to the property being
removed. 

8. Trees, Shrubs And Other Plants
We cover trees, shrubs, plants or lawns, on the
Described Location for loss caused by the
following Perils Insured Against: 
a. Fire or lightning; 
b. Explosion; 
c. Riot or civil commotion; 
d. Aircraft; 
e. Vehicles not owned or operated by you or a

resident of the Described Location; or 
f. Vandalism or malicious mischief, including

damage during a burglary or attempted
burglary, but not theft of property. 

The limit of liability for this coverage will not be
more than 5% of the Coverage A limit of
liability, or more than $500 for any one tree,
shrub or plant. We do not cover property grown
for commercial purposes. 
This coverage is additional insurance. 

9. Fire Department Service Charge
We will pay up to $500 for your liability
assumed by contract or agreement for fire
department charges incurred when the fire
department is called to save or protect covered
property from a Peril Insured Against. We do
not cover fire department service charges if the
property is located within the limits of the city,
municipality or protection district furnishing the
fire department response. 
This coverage is additional insurance. No
deductible applies to this coverage. 

10. Collapse
a. With respect to this Other Coverage:

(1) Collapse means an abrupt falling down
or caving in of a building or any part of a
building with the result that the building
or part of the building cannot be
occupied for its current intended
purpose.

(2) A building or any part of a building that
is in danger of falling down or caving in
is not considered to be in a state of
collapse.



 
DP 00 03 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  5  of 15  
 

(3) A part of a building that is standing is not
considered to be in a state of collapse
even if it has separated from another
part of the building.

(4) A building or any part of a building that
is standing is not considered to be in a
state of collapse even if it shows
evidence of cracking, bulging, sagging,
bending, leaning, settling, shrinkage or
expansion. 

b. We insure for direct physical loss to
covered property involving collapse of a
building or any part of a building if the
collapse was caused by one or more of the
following: 

(1) The Perils Insured Against named under
Coverage C; 

(2) Decay that is hidden from view, unless
the presence of such decay is known to
you prior to collapse; 

(3) Insect or vermin damage that is hidden
from view, unless the presence of such
damage is known to you prior to
collapse; 

(4) Weight of contents, equipment, animals
or people; 

(5) Weight of rain which collects on a roof;
or

(6) Use of defective material or methods in
construction, remodeling or renovation if
the collapse occurs during the course of
the construction, remodeling or
renovation. 

c. Loss to an awning, fence, patio, deck,
pavement, swimming pool, underground
pipe, flue, drain, cesspool, septic tank,
foundation, retaining wall, bulkhead, pier,
wharf or dock is not included under b.(2)
through (6) above unless the loss is a direct
result of the collapse of a building or any
part of a building. 

d. This coverage does not increase the limit of
liability that applies to the damaged covered
property. 

11. Glass Or Safety Glazing Material
a. We cover:

(1) The breakage of glass or safety glazing
material which is part of a covered
building, storm door or storm window;

(2) The breakage of glass or safety glazing
material which is part of a covered
building, storm door or storm window
when caused directly by earth
movement; and



 
Page  6  of 15 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DP 00 03 12 02  
 

(3) The direct physical loss to covered
property caused solely by the pieces,
fragments or splinters of broken glass or
safety glazing material which is part of a
building, storm door or storm window.

b. This coverage does not include loss:
(1) To covered property which results

because the glass or safety glazing
material has been broken, except as
provided in a.(3) above; or 

(2) On the Described Location if the
dwelling has been vacant for more than
60 consecutive days immediately before
the loss, except when the breakage
results directly from earth movement as
provided for in a.(2) above. A dwelling
being constructed is not considered
vacant.

c. This coverage does not increase the limit of
liability that applies to the damaged
property.

12. Ordinance Or Law 
a. The Ordinance Or Law limit of liability

determined in b. or c. below will apply with
respect to the increased costs you incur
due to the enforcement of any ordinance or
law which requires or regulates:

(1) The construction, demolition,
remodeling, renovation or repair of that
part of a covered building or other
structure damaged by a Peril Insured
Against;

(2) The demolition and reconstruction of the
undamaged part of a covered building or
other structure, when that building or
other structure must be totally
demolished because of damage by a
Peril Insured Against to another part of
that covered building or other structure;
or

(3) The remodeling, removal or replacement
of the portion of the undamaged part of
a covered building or other structure
necessary to complete the remodeling,
repair or replacement of that part of the
covered building or other structure
damaged by a Peril Insured Against.

b. If you are an owner of a Described
Location, and that location:

(1) Is insured for Coverage A or
Unit-Owners Building Items, you may
use up to 10% of the limit of liability that
applies to Coverage A or Unit-Owners
Building Items at each Described
Location; or



 
DP 00 03 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  7  of 15  
 

(2) Is not insured for Coverage A or
Unit-Owners Building Items, you may
use up to 10% of the total limit of liability
that applies to Coverage B at each
Described Location.

c. If you are a tenant of a Described Location,
you may use up to 10% of the limit of
liability that applies to Improvements,
Alterations And Additions at each Described
Location. Also, the words "covered building"
used throughout this Other Coverage 12.
Ordinance Or Law, refer to property at such
a Described Location covered under Other
Coverage 3. Improvements, Alterations And
Additions.

d. You may use all or part of this ordinance or
law coverage to pay for the increased costs
you incur to remove debris resulting from
the construction, demolition, remodeling,
renovation, repair or replacement of
property as stated in a. above.

e. We do not cover:
(1) The loss in value to any covered

building or other structure due to the
requirements of any ordinance or law; or

(2) The costs to comply with any ordinance
or law which requires you or others to
test for, monitor, clean up, remove,
contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or
in any way respond to, or assess the
effects of, pollutants in or on any
covered building or other structure.
Pollutants means any solid, liquid,
gaseous or thermal irritant or
contaminant, including smoke, vapor,
soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals
and waste. Waste includes materials to
be recycled, reconditioned or reclaimed.

This coverage is additional insurance.
PERILS INSURED AGAINST
A. Coverage A – Dwelling And Coverage B –

Other Structures
1. We insure against risk of direct physical loss to

property described in Coverages A and B. 
2. We do not insure, however, for loss: 

a. Excluded under General Exclusions;
b. Involving collapse, except as provided in

Other Coverage 10. Collapse; or
c. Caused by: 

(1) Freezing of a plumbing, heating, air
conditioning or automatic fire protective
sprinkler system or of a household
appliance, or by discharge, leakage or
overflow from within the system or
appliance caused by freezing. This
provision does not apply if you have
used reasonable care to: 

(a) Maintain heat in the building; or 
(b) Shut off the water supply and drain

all systems and appliances of water; 
However, if the building is protected by
an automatic fire protective sprinkler
system, you must use reasonable care
to continue the water supply and
maintain heat in the building for
coverage to apply. 
For purposes of this provision a
plumbing system or household
appliance does not include a sump,
sump pump or related equipment or a
roof drain, gutter, downspout or similar
fixtures or equipment.

(2) Freezing, thawing, pressure or weight of
water or ice, whether driven by wind or
not, to a: 

(a) Fence, pavement, patio or swimming
pool; 

(b) Footing, foundation, bulkhead, wall,
or any other structure or device, that
supports all or part of a building or
other structure;

(c) Retaining wall or bulkhead that does
not support all or part of a building or
other structure; or 

(d) Pier, wharf or dock; 
(3) Theft of property not part of a covered

building or structure;
(4) Theft in or to a dwelling or structure

under construction; 
(5) Wind, hail, ice, snow or sleet to: 

(a) Outdoor radio and television
antennas and aerials including their
lead-in wiring, masts or towers; or 

(b) Trees, shrubs, plants or lawns; 



 
Page  8  of 15 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DP 00 03 12 02  
 

(6) Vandalism and malicious mischief, theft
or attempted theft, and any ensuing loss
caused by any intentional and wrongful
act committed in the course of the
vandalism or malicious mischief, theft or
attempted theft, if the dwelling has been
vacant for more than 60 consecutive
days immediately before the loss. A
dwelling being constructed is not
considered vacant; 

(7) Constant or repeated seepage or
leakage of water or steam over a period
of weeks, months or years from within a
plumbing, heating, air conditioning or
automatic fire protective sprinkler
system or from within a household
appliance. 
For purposes of this provision, a
plumbing system or household
appliance does not include a sump,
sump pump or related equipment or a
roof drain, gutter, downspout or similar
fixtures or equipment; 

(8) Any of the following:
(a) Wear and tear, marring,

deterioration; 
(b) Mechanical breakdown, latent defect,

inherent vice, or any quality in
property that causes it to damage or
destroy itself; 

(c) Smog, rust or other corrosion, mold,
wet or dry rot;

(d) Smoke from agricultural smudging or
industrial operations; 

(e) Discharge, dispersal, seepage,
migration release or escape of
pollutants unless the discharge,
dispersal, seepage, migration,
release or escape is itself caused by
a Peril Insured Against named under
Coverage C. 
Pollutants means any solid, liquid,
gaseous or thermal irritant or
contaminant, including smoke, vapor,
soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals
and waste. Waste includes materials
to be recycled, reconditioned or
reclaimed; 

(f) Settling, shrinking, bulging or
expansion, including resultant
cracking, of bulkheads, pavements,
patios, footings, foundations, walls,
floors, roofs or ceilings; or 

(g) Birds, vermin, rodents, insects or
domestic animals. 

Exception To c.(8)
Unless the loss is otherwise excluded, we
cover loss to property covered under Coverage
A or B resulting from an accidental discharge
or overflow of water or steam from within a:
(i) Storm drain, or water, steam or sewer pipe,

off the Described Location; or
(ii) Plumbing, heating, air conditioning or

automatic fire protective sprinkler system or
household appliance on the Described
Location. This includes the cost to tear out
and replace any part of a building, or other
structure, on the Described Location, but
only when necessary to repair the system
or appliance. However, such tear out and
replacement coverage only applies to other
structures if the water or steam causes
actual damage to a building on the
Described Location.

We do not cover loss to the system or
appliance from which this water or steam
escaped.
For the purposes of this provision, a plumbing
system or household appliance does not
include a sump, sump pump or related
equipment or roof drain, gutter, down spout or
similar fixtures or equipment.

General Exclusion A.3. Water Damage,
Paragraphs a. and c. that apply to surface water
and water below the surface of ground do not
apply to loss by water covered under c.(8) above.
Under 2.b. and c. above, any ensuing loss to
property described in Coverages A and B not
excluded or excepted in this policy is covered. 

B. Coverage C – Personal Property
We insure for direct physical loss to the property
described in Coverage C caused by a peril listed
below unless the loss is excluded in the General
Exclusions. 
1. Fire Or Lightning
2. Windstorm Or Hail

This peril does not include loss to: 
a. Property contained in a building caused by

rain, snow, sleet, sand or dust unless the
direct force of wind or hail damages the
building causing an opening in a roof or wall
and the rain, snow, sleet, sand or dust
enters through this opening; 

b. Canoes and rowboats; or 
c. Trees, shrubs or plants. 



 
DP 00 03 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  9  of 15  
 

3. Explosion
4. Riot Or Civil Commotion
5. Aircraft

This peril includes self-propelled missiles and
spacecraft. 

6. Vehicles 
7. Smoke

This peril means sudden and accidental
damage from smoke, including the emission or
puffback of smoke, soot, fumes or vapors from
a boiler, furnace or related equipment. 
This peril does not include loss caused by
smoke from agricultural smudging or industrial
operations. 

8. Vandalism Or Malicious Mischief
This peril does not include loss by pilferage,
theft, burglary or larceny. 

9. Damage By Burglars
a. This peril means damage to covered

property caused by burglars. 
b. This peril does not include: 

(1) Theft of property; or 
(2) Damage caused by burglars to property

on the Described Location if the dwelling
has been vacant for more than 60
consecutive days immediately before
the damage occurs. A dwelling being
constructed is not considered vacant. 

10. Falling Objects
This peril does not include loss to property
contained in the building unless the roof or an
outside wall of the building is first damaged by
a falling object. Damage to the falling object
itself is not covered.

11. Weight Of Ice, Snow Or Sleet 
This peril means weight of ice, snow or sleet
which causes damage to property contained in
the building. 

12. Accidental Discharge Or Overflow Of Water
Or Steam 
a. This peril means accidental discharge or

overflow of water or steam from within a
plumbing, heating, air conditioning or
automatic fire protective sprinkler system or
from within a household appliance. 

b. This peril does not include loss: 
(1) To the system or appliance from which

the water or steam escaped; 

(2) Caused by or resulting from freezing
except as provided in Peril Insured
Against 14. Freezing; or

(3) On the Described Location caused by
accidental discharge or overflow which
occurs off the Described Location.

c. In this peril, a plumbing system or
household appliance does not include a
sump, sump pump or related equipment; or
a roof drain, gutter, downspout or similar
fixtures or equipment.

d. General Exclusion A.3. Water Damage,
Paragraphs a. and c. that apply to surface
water and water below the surface of the
ground do not apply to loss by water
covered under this peril.

13. Sudden And Accidental Tearing Apart,
Cracking, Burning Or Bulging
This peril means sudden and accidental tearing
apart, cracking, burning or bulging of a steam
or hot water heating system, an air conditioning
or automatic fire protective sprinkler system, or
an appliance for heating water. 
We do not cover loss caused by or resulting
from freezing except as provided in the peril of
freezing below. 

14. Freezing 
a. This peril means freezing of a plumbing,

heating, air conditioning or automatic fire
protective sprinkler system or of a
household appliance but only if you have
used reasonable care to:

(1) Maintain heat in the building; or 
(2) Shut off the water supply and drain all

systems and appliances of water. 
However, if the building is protected by an
automatic fire protective sprinkler system,
you must use reasonable care to continue
the water supply and maintain heat in the
building for coverage to apply. 

b. In this peril, a plumbing system or
household appliance does not include a
sump, sump pump or related equipment; or
a roof drain, gutter, downspout or similar
fixtures or equipment.

15. Sudden And Accidental Damage From
Artificially Generated Electrical Current
This peril does not include loss to tubes,
transistors, electronic components or circuitry
that are a part of appliances, fixtures,
computers, home entertainment units or other
types of electronic apparatus. 



 
Page  10 of 15 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DP 00 03 12 02  
 

16. Volcanic Eruption
This peril does not include loss caused by
earthquake, land shock waves or tremors. 

GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
A. We do not insure for loss caused directly or

indirectly by any of the following. Such loss is
excluded regardless of any other cause or event
contributing concurrently or in any sequence to the
loss. These exclusions apply whether or not the
loss event results in widespread damage or affects
a substantial area.
1. Ordinance Or Law

Ordinance Or Law means any ordinance or
law:
a. Requiring or regulating the construction,

demolition, remodeling, renovation or repair
of property, including removal of any
resulting debris. This Exclusion A.1.a. does
not apply to the amount of coverage that
may be provided under Other Coverage 12.
Ordinance Or Law;

b. The requirements of which result in a loss in
value to property; or

c. Requiring you or others to test for, monitor,
clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify or
neutralize, or in any way respond to, or
assess the effects of, pollutants.
Pollutants means any solid, liquid, gaseous
or thermal irritant or contaminant, including
smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis,
chemicals and waste. Waste includes
materials to be recycled, reconditioned or
reclaimed.

This Exclusion A.1. applies whether or not the
property has been physically damaged.

2. Earth Movement
Earth Movement means:
a. Earthquake, including land shock waves or

tremors before, during or after a volcanic
eruption; 

b. Landslide, mudslide or mudflow; 
c. Subsidence or sinkhole; or
d. Any other earth movement including earth

sinking, rising or shifting; 
caused by or resulting from human or animal
forces or any act of nature unless direct loss by
fire or explosion ensues and then we will pay
only for the ensuing loss. 

3. Water Damage
Water Damage means: 

a. Flood, surface water, waves, tidal water,
overflow of a body of water or spray from
any of these, whether or not driven by wind;

b. Water or water-borne material which backs
up through sewers or drains or which
overflows or is discharged from a sump,
sump pump or related equipment; or 

c. Water or water-borne material below the
surface of the ground, including water which
exerts pressure on or seeps or leaks
through a building, sidewalk, driveway,
foundation, swimming pool or other
structure;

caused by or resulting from human or animal
forces or any act of nature.
Direct loss by fire or explosion resulting from
water damage is covered. 

4. Power Failure
Power Failure means the failure of power or
other utility service if the failure takes place off
the Described Location. But if the failure of
power or other utility service results in a loss,
from a Peril Insured Against on the Described
Location, we will pay for the loss caused by
that Peril Insured Against.

5. Neglect
Neglect means your neglect to use all
reasonable means to save and preserve
property at and after the time of a loss. 

6. War 
War includes the following and any
consequence of any of the following: 
a. Undeclared war, civil war, insurrection,

rebellion or revolution; 
b. Warlike act by a military force or military

personnel; 
c. Destruction or seizure or use for a military

purpose. 
Discharge of a nuclear weapon will be deemed
a warlike act even if accidental. 

7. Nuclear Hazard
This Exclusion A.7. pertains to Nuclear Hazard
to the extent set forth in the Nuclear Hazard
Clause of the Conditions. 

8. Intentional Loss 
Intentional Loss means any loss arising out of
any act you or any person or organization
named as an additional insured commits or
conspires to commit with the intent to cause a
loss. 



 
DP 00 03 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  11 of 15  
 

In the event of such loss, neither you nor any
such person or organization is entitled to
coverage, even those who did not commit or
conspire to commit the act causing the loss.

9. Governmental Action 
Governmental Action means the destruction,
confiscation or seizure of property described in 
A, B or C by order of any governmental or
public authority.
This exclusion does not apply to such acts
ordered by any governmental or public
authority that are taken at the time of a fire to
prevent its spread, if the loss caused by fire
would be covered under this policy.

B. We do not insure for loss to property described in
Coverages A and B caused by any of the
following. However, any ensuing loss to property
described in Coverages A and B not precluded by
any other provision in this policy is covered. 
1. Weather conditions. However, this exclusion

only applies if weather conditions contribute in
any way with a cause or event excluded in A.
above to produce the loss. 

2. Acts or decisions, including the failure to act or
decide, of any person, group, organization or
governmental body. 

3. Faulty, inadequate or defective:
a. Planning, zoning, development, surveying,

siting; 
b. Design, specifications, workmanship, repair,

construction, renovation, remodeling,
grading, compaction; 

c. Materials used in repair, construction,
renovation or remodeling; or 

d. Maintenance; 
of part or all of any property whether on or off
the Described Location. 

CONDITIONS
A. Policy Period

This policy applies only to loss which occurs
during the policy period. 

B. Insurable Interest And Limit Of Liability
Even if more than one person has an insurable
interest in the property covered, we will not be
liable in any one loss: 
1. For an amount greater than the interest of a

person insured under this policy at the time of
loss; or 

2. For more than the applicable limit of liability. 

C. Concealment Or Fraud
We provide coverage to no persons insured under
this policy if, whether before or after a loss, one or
more persons insured under this policy have:
1. Intentionally concealed or misrepresented any

material fact or circumstance;
2. Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or
3. Made false statements;
relating to this insurance.

D. Duties After Loss
In case of a loss to covered property, we have no
duty to provide coverage under this policy if the
failure to comply with the following duties is
prejudicial to us. These duties must be performed
either by you or your representative: 
1. Give prompt notice to us or our agent; 
2. Protect the property from further damage. If

repairs to the property are required, you must: 
a. Make reasonable and necessary repairs to

protect the property; and 
b. Keep an accurate record of repair

expenses; 
3. Cooperate with us in the investigation of a

claim; 
4. Prepare an inventory of damaged personal

property showing the quantity, description,
actual cash value and amount of loss. Attach
all bills, receipts and related documents that
justify the figures in the inventory;

5. As often as we reasonably require: 
a. Show the damaged property; 
b. Provide us with records and documents we

request and permit us to make copies; and 
c. Submit to examination under oath, while not

in the presence of another named insured,
and sign the same; 

6. Send to us, within 60 days after our request,
your signed, sworn proof of loss which sets
forth to the best of your knowledge and belief: 
a. The time and cause of loss; 
b. Your interest and that of all others in the

property involved and all liens on the
property; 

c. Other insurance which may cover the loss; 
d. Changes in title or occupancy of the

property during the term of the policy; 
e. Specifications of damaged buildings and

detailed repair estimates; 



 
Page  12 of 15 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DP 00 03 12 02  
 

f. The inventory of damaged personal
property described in D.3.; 

g. Receipts for additional living expenses
incurred and records that support the fair
rental value loss. 

E. Loss Settlement
In this Condition E., the terms "cost to repair or
replace" and "replacement cost" do not include the
increased costs incurred to comply with the
enforcement of any ordinance or law except to the
extent that coverage for these increased costs is
provided in Other Coverage F.12. Ordinance Or
Law. Covered property losses are settled as
follows: 
1. Property of the following types:

a. Personal property; 
b. Awnings, carpeting, household appliances,

outdoor antennas and outdoor equipment,
whether or not attached to buildings; and

c. Structures that are not buildings;
at actual cash value at the time of loss but not
more than the amount required to repair or
replace. 

2. Buildings under Coverage A or B at
replacement cost without deduction for
depreciation, subject to the following: 
a. If, at the time of loss, the amount of

insurance in this policy on the damaged
building is 80% or more of the full
replacement cost of the building
immediately before the loss, we will pay the
cost to repair or replace, after application of
any deductible and without deduction for
depreciation, but not more than the least of
the following amounts: 

(1) The limit of liability under this policy that
applies to the building; 

(2) The replacement cost of that part of the
building damaged with material of like
kind and quality and for like use; or 

(3) The necessary amount actually spent to
repair or replace the damaged building. 

If the building is rebuilt at a new premises,
the cost described in (2) above is limited to
the cost which would have been incurred if
the building had been built at the original
premises.

b. If, at the time of loss, the amount of
insurance in this policy on the damaged
building is less than 80% of the full
replacement cost of the building
immediately before the loss, we will pay the
greater of the following amounts, but not
more than the limit of liability under this
policy that applies to the building: 

(1) The actual cash value of that part of the
building damaged; or 

(2) That proportion of the cost to repair or
replace, after application of deductible
and without deduction for depreciation,
that part of the building damaged, which
the total amount of insurance in this
policy on the damaged building bears to
80% of the replacement cost of the
building. 

c. To determine the amount of insurance
required to equal 80% of the full
replacement cost of the building
immediately before the loss, do not include
the value of: 

(1) Excavations, footings, foundations, piers
or any other structures or devices that
support all or part of the building, which
are below the undersurface of the lowest
basement floor; 

(2) Those supports in (1) above which are
below the surface of the ground inside
the foundation walls, if there is no
basement; and 

(3) Underground flues, pipes, wiring and
drains. 

d. We will pay no more than the actual cash
value of the damage until actual repair or
replacement is complete. Once actual
repair or replacement is complete, we will
settle the loss as noted in 2.a. and b.
above.
However, if the cost to repair or replace the
damage is both:

(1) Less than 5% of the amount of
insurance in this policy on the building;
and

(2) Less than $2,500;
we will settle the loss as noted in 2.a. and b.
above whether or not actual repair or
replacement is complete.



 
DP 00 03 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  13 of 15  
 

e. You may disregard the replacement cost
loss settlement provisions and make claim
under this policy for loss to buildings on an
actual cash value basis. You may then
make claim for any additional liability
according to the provisions of this Condition
E. Loss Settlement, provided you notify us
of your intent to do so within 180 days after
the date of loss. 

F. Loss To A Pair Or Set
In case of loss to a pair or set we may elect to: 
1. Repair or replace any part to restore the pair or

set to its value before the loss; or 
2. Pay the difference between actual cash value

of the property before and after the loss. 
G. Appraisal 

If you and we fail to agree on the amount of loss,
either may demand an appraisal of the loss. In this
event, each party will choose a competent and
impartial appraiser within 20 days after receiving a
written request from the other. The two appraisers
will choose an umpire. If they cannot agree upon
an umpire within 15 days, you or we may request
that the choice be made by a judge of a court of
record in the state where the Described Location is
located. The appraisers will separately set the
amount of loss. If the appraisers submit a written
report of an agreement to us, the amount agreed
upon will be the amount of loss. If they fail to
agree, they will submit their differences to the
umpire. A decision agreed to by any two will set
the amount of loss. 
Each party will: 
1. Pay its own appraiser; and 
2. Bear the other expenses of the appraisal and

umpire equally. 
H. Other Insurance And Service Agreement 

If property covered by this policy is also covered
by:
1. Other fire insurance, we will pay only the

proportion of a loss caused by any peril insured
against under this policy that the limit of liability
applying under this policy bears to the total
amount of fire insurance covering the property;
or

2. A service agreement, this insurance is excess
over any amounts payable under any such
agreement. Service agreement means a
service plan, property restoration plan, home
warranty or other similar service warranty
agreement, even if it is characterized as
insurance.

I. Subrogation
You may waive in writing before a loss all rights of
recovery against any person. If not waived, we
may require an assignment of rights of recovery
for a loss to the extent that payment is made by
us. 
If an assignment is sought, the person insured
must sign and deliver all related papers and
cooperate with us. 

J. Suit Against Us
No action can be brought against us unless there
has been full compliance with all of the terms
under this policy and the action is started within
two years after the date of loss. 

K. Our Option 
If we give you written notice within 30 days after
we receive your signed, sworn proof of loss, we
may repair or replace any part of the damaged
property with material or property of like kind and
quality. 

L. Loss Payment
We will adjust all losses with you. We will pay you
unless some other person is named in the policy
or is legally entitled to receive payment. Loss will
be payable 60 days after we receive your proof of
loss and: 
1. Reach an agreement with you; 
2. There is an entry of a final judgment; or 
3. There is a filing of an appraisal award with us. 

M. Abandonment Of Property
We need not accept any property abandoned by
you. 

N. Mortgage Clause
1. If a mortgagee is named in this policy, any loss

payable under Coverage A or B will be paid to
the mortgagee and you, as interests appear. If
more than one mortgagee is named, the order
of payment will be the same as the order of
precedence of the mortgages. 

2. If we deny your claim, that denial will not apply
to a valid claim of the mortgagee, if the
mortgagee: 
a. Notifies us of any change in ownership,

occupancy or substantial change in risk of
which the mortgagee is aware; 

b. Pays any premium due under this policy on
demand if you have neglected to pay the
premium; and 



 
Page  14 of 15 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DP 00 03 12 02  
 

c. Submits a signed, sworn statement of loss
within 60 days after receiving notice from us
of your failure to do so. Policy conditions
relating to Paragraphs G. Appraisal, J. Suit
Against Us and L. Loss Payment also apply
to the mortgagee. 

3. If we decide to cancel or not to renew this
policy, the mortgagee will be notified at least 10
days before the date cancellation or
nonrenewal takes effect. 

4. If we pay the mortgagee for any loss and deny
payment to you: 
a. We are subrogated to all the rights of the

mortgagee granted under the mortgage on
the property; or 

b. At our option, we may pay to the mortgagee
the whole principal on the mortgage plus
any accrued interest. In this event, we will
receive a full assignment and transfer of the
mortgage and all securities held as
collateral to the mortgage debt. 

5. Subrogation will not impair the right of the
mortgagee to recover the full amount of the
mortgagee's claim. 

O. No Benefit To Bailee
We will not recognize any assignment or grant any
coverage that benefits a person or organization
holding, storing or moving property for a fee
regardless of any other provision of this policy. 

P. Cancellation
1. You may cancel this policy at any time by

returning it to us or by letting us know in writing
of the date cancellation is to take effect. 

2. We may cancel this policy only for the reasons
stated below by letting you know in writing of
the date cancellation takes effect. This
cancellation notice may be delivered to you, or
mailed to you at your mailing address shown in
the Declarations. Proof of mailing will be
sufficient proof of notice.
a. When you have not paid the premium, we

may cancel at any time by letting you know
at least 10 days before the date
cancellation takes effect. 

b. When this policy has been in effect for less
than 60 days and is not a renewal with us,
we may cancel for any reason by letting you
know at least 10 days before the date
cancellation takes effect. 

c. When this policy has been in effect for 60
days or more, or at any time if it is a
renewal with us, we may cancel: 

(1) If there has been a material
misrepresentation of fact which if known
to us would have caused us not to issue
the policy; or 

(2) If the risk has changed substantially
since the policy was issued. 

This can be done by letting you know at
least 30 days before the date cancellation
takes effect. 

d. When this policy is written for a period of
more than one year, we may cancel for any
reason at anniversary by letting you know at
least 30 days before the date cancellation
takes effect. 

3. When this policy is canceled, the premium for
the period from the date of cancellation to the
expiration date will be refunded pro rata. 

4. If the return premium is not refunded with the
notice of cancellation or when this policy is
returned to us, we will refund it within a
reasonable time after the date cancellation
takes effect. 

Q. Nonrenewal 
We may elect not to renew this policy. We may do
so by delivering to you, or mailing to you at your
mailing address shown in the Declarations, written
notice at least 30 days before the expiration date
of this policy. Proof of mailing will be sufficient
proof of notice. 

R. Liberalization Clause
If we make a change which broadens coverage
under this edition of our policy without additional
premium charge, that change will automatically
apply to your insurance as of the date we
implement the change in your state, provided that
this implementation date falls within 60 days prior
to or during the policy period stated in the
Declarations. 
This Liberalization Clause does not apply to
changes implemented with a general program
revision that includes both broadenings and
restrictions in coverage, whether that general
program revision is implemented through
introduction of:
1. A subsequent edition of this policy; or
2. An amendatory endorsement.



 
DP 00 03 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  15 of 15  
 

S. Waiver Or Change Of Policy Provisions
A waiver or change of a provision of this policy
must be in writing by us to be valid. Our request
for an appraisal or examination will not waive any
of our rights. 

T. Assignment
Assignment of this policy will not be valid unless
we give our written consent. 

U. Death
If you die, we insure: 
1. Your legal representatives but only with respect

to the property of the deceased covered under
the policy at the time of death; 

2. With respect to your property, the person
having proper temporary custody of the
property until appointment and qualification of a
legal representative. 

V. Nuclear Hazard Clause
1. "Nuclear Hazard" means any nuclear reaction,

radiation or radioactive contamination, all
whether controlled or uncontrolled or however
caused, or any consequence of any of these. 

2. Loss caused by the nuclear hazard will not be
considered loss caused by fire, explosion, or
smoke, whether these perils are specifically
named in or otherwise included within the
Perils Insured Against. 

3. This policy does not apply to loss caused
directly or indirectly by nuclear hazard, except
that direct loss by fire resulting from the nuclear
hazard is covered. 

W. Recovered Property
If you or we recover any property for which we
have made payment under this policy, you or we
will notify the other of the recovery. At your option,
the property will be returned to or retained by you
or it will become our property. If the recovered
property is returned to or retained by you, the loss
payment will be adjusted based on the amount
you received for the recovered property. 

X. Volcanic Eruption Period
One or more volcanic eruptions that occur within a
72-hour period will be considered as one volcanic
eruption. 

Y. Loss Payable Clause
If the Declarations show a loss payee for certain
listed insured personal property, that person is
considered an insured in this policy with respect to
that property. 
If we decide to cancel or not renew this policy, that
loss payee will be notified in writing.

 



 DWELLING PROPERTY
 DP 16 10 01 09
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 

DP 16 10 01 09 © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2008 Page  1  of 1   
 

WATER EXCLUSION ENDORSEMENT
 
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS

A.3. Water Damage is replaced by the following:
3. Water

This means:
a. Flood, surface water, waves, including tidal

wave and tsunami, tides, tidal water,
overflow of any body of water, or spray from
any of these, all whether or not driven by
wind, including storm surge;

b. Water which:
(1) Backs up through sewers or drains; or
(2) Overflows or is otherwise discharged

from a sump, sump pump or related
equipment;

c. Water below the surface of the ground,
including water which exerts pressure on, or
seeps, leaks or flows through a building,
sidewalk, driveway, patio, foundation,
swimming pool or other structure; or

d. Waterborne material carried or otherwise
moved by any of the water referred to in 
A.3.a. through A.3.c. of this Exclusion.

This Exclusion (A.3.) applies regardless of
whether any of the above, in A.3.a. through 
A.3.d., is caused by an act of nature or is
otherwise caused.
This Exclusion (A.3.) applies to, but is not
limited to, escape, overflow or discharge, for
any reason, of water or waterborne material
from a dam, levee, seawall or any other
boundary or containment system.
However, direct loss by fire or explosion
resulting from any of the above, in A.3.a. 
through A.3.d., is covered.

All other provisions of this policy apply.



 PERSONAL LIABILITY
 DL 24 01 12 02
 

DL 24 01 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  1  of 9   
 

PERSONAL LIABILITY
 
AGREEMENT
We will provide the insurance described in this policy
in return for the premium and compliance with all
applicable provisions of this policy. 
DEFINITIONS
A. In this policy, "you" and "your" refer to the "named

insured" shown in the Declarations and the spouse
if a resident of the same household. "We", "us"
and "our" refer to the Company providing this
insurance.

B. In addition, certain words and phrases are defined
as follows:
1. "Aircraft Liability", "Hovercraft Liability", "Motor

Vehicle Liability" and "Watercraft Liability",
subject to the provisions in b. below, mean the
following:
a. Liability for "bodily injury" or "property

damage" arising out of the:
(1) Ownership of such vehicle or craft by an

"insured";
(2) Maintenance, occupancy, operation,

use, loading or unloading of such
vehicle or craft by any person;

(3) Entrustment of such vehicle or craft by
an "insured" to any person;

(4) Failure to supervise or negligent
supervision of any person involving such
vehicle or craft by an "insured"; or

(5) Vicarious liability, whether or not
imposed by law, for the actions of a child
or minor involving such vehicle or craft.

b. For the purpose of this definition:
(1) Aircraft means any contrivance used or

designed for flight except model or
hobby aircraft not used or designed to
carry people or cargo;

(2) Hovercraft means a self-propelled
motorized ground effect vehicle and
includes, but is not limited to, flarecraft
and air cushion vehicles;

(3) Watercraft means a craft principally
designed to be propelled on or in water
by wind, engine power or electric motor;
and

(4) Motor vehicle means a "motor vehicle"
as defined in 7. below.

2. "Bodily injury" means bodily harm, sickness or
disease, including required care, loss of
services and death that results.

3. "Business" means:
a. A trade, profession or occupation engaged

in on a full-time, part-time or occasional
basis; or

b. Any other activity engaged in for money or
other compensation, except the following:

(1) One or more activities, not described in 
(2) through (4) below, for which no
"insured" receives more than $2,000 in
total compensation for the 12 months
before the beginning of the policy period;

(2) Volunteer activities for which no money
is received other than payment for
expenses incurred to perform the
activity;

(3) Providing home day care services for
which no compensation is received,
other than the mutual exchange of such
services; or

(4) The rendering of home day care
services to a relative of an "insured".

4. "Employee" means an employee of an
"insured", or an employee leased to an
"insured" by a labor leasing firm under an
agreement between an "insured" and the labor
leasing firm, whose duties are other than those
performed by a "residence employee". 

5. "Insured" means:
a. You and residents of your household who

are: 
(1) Your relatives; or 
(2) Other persons under the age of 21 and

in the care of any person named above; 
b. A student enrolled in school full time, as

defined by the school, who was a resident
of your household before moving out to
attend school, provided the student is under
the age of:

(1) 24 and your relative; or
(2) 21 and in your care or the care of a

person described in a.(1) above;



 
Page  2  of 9 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DL 24 01 12 02  
 

c. With respect to animals or watercraft to
which this policy applies, any person or
organization legally responsible for
these animals or watercraft which are
owned by you or any person included in 
a. or b. above. "Insured" does not mean
a person or organization using or having
custody of these animals or watercraft in
the course of any "business" or without
consent of the owner; or

d. With respect to a "motor vehicle" to
which this policy applies:

(1) Persons while engaged in your
employ or that of any person
included in a. or b. above; or 

(2) Other persons using the vehicle on
an "insured location" with your
consent. 

Throughout this policy, when the word an
immediately precedes the word "insured", the
words an "insured" together mean one or more
"insureds". 

6. "Insured location" means: 
a. The "residence premises"; 
b. The part of other premises, other structures

and grounds used by you as a residence;
and

(1) Which is shown in the Declarations; or
(2) Which is acquired by you during the

policy period for your use as a
residence; 

c. Any premises used by you in connection
with a premises described in a. and b. 
above; 

d. Any part of a premises: 
(1) Not owned by an "insured"; and 
(2) Where an "insured" is temporarily

residing; 
e. Vacant land, other than farm land, owned

by or rented to an "insured"; 
f. Land owned by or rented to an "insured" on

which a one, two, three or four family
dwelling is being built as a residence for an
"insured"; 

g. Individual or family cemetery plots or burial
vaults of an "insured"; or 

h. Any part of a premises occasionally rented
to an "insured" for other than "business"
use.

7. "Motor vehicle" means:
a. A self-propelled land or amphibious vehicle;

or
b. Any trailer or semitrailer which is being

carried on, towed by or hitched for towing
by a vehicle described in a. above.

8. "Occurrence" means an accident, including
continuous or repeated exposure to
substantially the same general harmful
conditions, which results, during the policy
period, in: 
a. "Bodily injury"; or 
b. "Property damage". 

9. "Property damage" means physical injury to,
destruction of, or loss of use of tangible
property.

10. "Residence employee" means:
a. An employee of an "insured", or an

employee leased to an "insured" by a labor
leasing firm, under an agreement between
an "insured" and the labor leasing firm,
whose duties are related to the
maintenance or use of the "residence
premises", including household or domestic
services; or

b. One who performs similar duties elsewhere
not related to the "business" of an "insured".

A "residence employee" does not include a
temporary employee who is furnished to an
"insured" to substitute for a permanent
"residence employee" on leave or to meet
seasonal or short-term workload conditions.

11. "Residence premises" means: 
a. The one family dwelling where you reside; 
b. The two, three or four family dwelling where

you reside in at least one of the family units;
or

c. That part of any other building where you
reside; 

and which is shown as the "residence
premises" in the Declarations. 
"Residence premises" also includes other
structures and grounds at that location.



 
DL 24 01 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  3  of 9  
 

LIABILITY COVERAGES
A. Coverage L – Personal Liability

If a claim is made or a suit is brought against an
"insured" for damages because of "bodily injury" or
"property damage" caused by an "occurrence" to
which this coverage applies, we will:
1. Pay up to our limit of liability for the damages

for which an "insured" is legally liable.
Damages include prejudgment interest
awarded against an "insured"; and

2. Provide a defense at our expense by counsel
of our choice, even if the suit is groundless,
false or fraudulent. We may investigate and
settle any claim or suit that we decide is
appropriate. Our duty to settle or defend ends
when our limit of liability for the "occurrence"
has been exhausted by payment of a judgment
or settlement. 

B. Coverage M – Medical Payments To Others 
We will pay the necessary medical expenses that
are incurred or medically ascertained within three
years from the date of an accident causing "bodily
injury". Medical expenses means reasonable
charges for medical, surgical, x-ray, dental,
ambulance, hospital, professional nursing,
prosthetic devices and funeral services. This
coverage does not apply to you or regular
residents of your household except "residence
employees". As to others, this coverage applies
only: 
1. To a person on the "insured location" with the

permission of an "insured"; or 
2. To a person off the "insured location", if the

"bodily injury": 
a. Arises out of a condition on the "insured

location" or the ways immediately adjoining;
b. Is caused by the activities of an "insured";
c. Is caused by a "residence employee" in the

course of the "residence employee's"
employment by an "insured"; or 

d. Is caused by an animal owned by or in the
care of an "insured". 

EXCLUSIONS
A. "Motor Vehicle Liability" 

1. Coverages L and M do not apply to any "motor
vehicle liability" if, at the time and place of an
"occurrence", the involved "motor vehicle":
a. Is registered for use on public roads or

property;

b. Is not registered for use on public roads or
property, but such registration is required by
a law, or regulation issued by a government
agency, for it to be used at the place of the
"occurrence"; or



 
Page  4  of 9 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DL 24 01 12 02  
 

c. Is being:
(1) Operated in, or practicing for, any

prearranged or organized race, speed
contest or other competition;

(2) Rented to others;
(3) Used to carry persons or cargo for a

charge; or
(4) Used for any "business" purpose except

for a motorized golf cart while on a
golfing facility.

2. If Exclusion A.1. does not apply, there is still no
coverage for "motor vehicle liability" unless the
"motor vehicle" is:
a. In dead storage on an "insured location";
b. Used solely to service an "insured's"

residence;
c. Designed to assist the handicapped and, at

the time of an "occurrence", it is:
(1) Being used to assist a handicapped

person; or
(2) Parked on an "insured location";

d. Designed for recreational use off public
roads and:

(1) Not owned by an "insured"; or
(2) Owned by an "insured" provided the

"occurrence" takes place on an "insured
location" as defined in Definitions B.
6.a., b., d., e. or h.; or

e. A motorized golf cart that is owned by an
"insured", designed to carry up to 4
persons, not built or modified after
manufacture to exceed a speed of 25 miles
per hour on level ground and, at the time of
an "occurrence", is within the legal
boundaries of:

(1) A golfing facility and is parked or stored
there, or being used by an "insured" to:

(a) Play the game of golf or for other
recreational or leisure activity
allowed by the facility;

(b) Travel to or from an area where
"motor vehicles" or golf carts are
parked or stored; or

(c) Cross public roads at designated
points to access other parts of the
golfing facility; or

(2) A private residential community,
including its public roads upon which a
motorized golf cart can legally travel,
which is subject to the authority of a
property owners association and
contains an "insured's" residence.



 
DL 24 01 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  5  of 9  
 

B. "Watercraft Liability"
1. Coverages L and M do not apply to any

"watercraft liability" if, at the time of an
"occurrence", the involved watercraft is being:
a. Operated in, or practicing for, any

prearranged or organized race, speed
contest or other competition. This exclusion
does not apply to a sailing vessel or a
predicted log cruise;

b. Rented to others;
c. Used to carry persons or cargo for a

charge; or
d. Used for any "business" purpose.

2. If Exclusion B.1. does not apply, there is still no
coverage for "watercraft liability" unless, at the
time of the "occurrence", the watercraft:
a. Is stored;
b. Is a sailing vessel, with or without auxiliary

power, that is:
(1) Less than 26 feet in overall length; or
(2) 26 feet or more in overall length and not

owned by or rented to an "insured"; or
c. Is not a sailing vessel and is powered by:

(1) An inboard or inboard-outdrive engine or
motor, including those that power a
water jet pump, of:

(a) 50 horsepower or less and not
owned by an "insured"; or

(b) More than 50 horsepower and not
owned by or rented to an "insured";
or

(2) One or more outboard engines or
motors with:

(a) 25 total horsepower or less; 
(b) More than 25 horsepower if the

outboard engine or motor is not
owned by an "insured";

(c) More than 25 horsepower if the
outboard engine or motor is owned
by an "insured" who acquired it
during the policy period; or

(d) More than 25 horsepower if the
outboard engine or motor is owned
by an "insured" who acquired it
before the policy period, but only if:
(i) You declare them at policy

inception; or

(ii) Your intent to insure them is
reported to us in writing within 45
days after you acquire them.

The coverages in (c) and (d) above
apply for the policy period.

Horsepower means the maximum power
rating assigned to the engine or motor by
the manufacturer.

C. "Aircraft Liability"
This policy does not cover "aircraft liability".

D. "Hovercraft Liability"
This policy does not cover "hovercraft liability".

E. Coverage L – Personal Liability And Coverage
M – Medical Payments To Others
Coverages L and M do not apply to the following: 
1. Expected Or Intended Injury

"Bodily injury" or "property damage" which is
expected or intended by an "insured" even if
the resulting "bodily injury" or "property
damage":
a. Is of a different kind, quality or degree than

initially expected or intended; or
b. Is sustained by a different person, entity,

real or personal property, than initially
expected or intended.

However, this Exclusion E.1. does not apply to
"bodily injury" resulting from the use of
reasonable force by an "insured" to protect
persons or property;

2. "Business"
a. "Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising

out of or in connection with a "business"
conducted from an "insured location" or
engaged in by an "insured", whether or not
the "business" is owned or operated by an
"insured" or employs an "insured". 
This Exclusion E.2. applies but is not limited
to an act or omission, regardless of its
nature or circumstance, involving a service
or duty rendered, promised, owed, or
implied to be provided because of the
nature of the "business".

b. This Exclusion E.2. does not apply to: 
(1) The rental or holding for rental of an

"insured location";
(a) On an occasional basis if used only

as a residence;



 
Page  6  of 9 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DL 24 01 12 02  
 

(b) In part for use only as a residence,
unless a single family unit is intended
for use by the occupying family to
lodge more than two roomers or
boarders; or

(c) In part, as an office, school, studio or
private garage; and

(2) An "insured" under the age of 21 years
involved in a part-time or occasional,
self-employed "business" with no
employees;

3. Professional Services
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out
of the rendering of or failure to render
professional services; 

4. "Insured's" Premises Not An "Insured
Location"
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out
of a premises: 
a. Owned by an "insured"; 
b. Rented to an "insured"; or
c. Rented to others by an "insured";
that is not an "insured location";

5. War
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" caused
directly or indirectly by war, including the
following and any consequence of any of the
following: 
a. Undeclared war, civil war, insurrection,

rebellion or revolution; 
b. Warlike act by a military force or military

personnel; or 
c. Destruction, seizure or use for a military

purpose.
Discharge of a nuclear weapon will be deemed
a warlike act even if accidental;

6. Communicable Disease
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" which
arises out of the transmission of a
communicable disease by an "insured";

7. Sexual Molestation, Corporal Punishment
Or Physical Or Mental Abuse
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out
of sexual molestation, corporal punishment or
physical or mental abuse; or 

8. Controlled Substance
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out
of the use, sale, manufacture, delivery, transfer
or possession by any person of a Controlled
Substance as defined by the Federal Food and
Drug Law at 21 U.S.C.A. Sections 811 and
812. Controlled Substances include but are not
limited to cocaine, LSD, marijuana and all
narcotic drugs. However, this exclusion does
not apply to the legitimate use of prescription
drugs by a person following the orders of a
licensed physician. 

Exclusions A. "Motor Vehicle Liability", B.
"Watercraft Liability", C. "Aircraft Liability", D. 
"Hovercraft Liability" and E.4. "Insured's" Premises
Not An "Insured Location" do not apply to "bodily
injury" to a "residence employee" arising out of
and in the course of the "residence employee's"
employment by an "insured".

F. Coverage L – Personal Liability
Coverage L does not apply to: 
1. Liability: 

a. For any loss assessment charged against
you as a member of an association,
corporation or community of property
owners; 

b. Under any contract or agreement entered
into by an "insured". However, this
exclusion does not apply to written
contracts: 

(1) That directly relate to the ownership,
maintenance or use of an "insured
location"; or 

(2) Where the liability of others is assumed
by you prior to an "occurrence"; 

unless excluded in a. above or elsewhere in
this policy; 

2. "Property damage" to property owned by an
"insured". This includes costs or expenses
incurred by an "insured" or others to repair,
replace, enhance, restore or maintain such
property to prevent injury to a person or
damage to property of others, whether on or
away from an "insured location"; 

3. "Property damage" to property rented to,
occupied or used by or in the care of an
"insured". This exclusion does not apply to
"property damage" caused by fire, smoke or
explosion; 



 
DL 24 01 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  7  of 9  
 

4. "Bodily injury" to any person eligible to receive
any benefits voluntarily provided or required to
be provided by an "insured" under any: 
a. Workers' compensation law; 
b. Non-occupational disability law; or 
c. Occupational disease law; 

5. "Bodily injury" or "property damage" for which
an "insured" under this policy: 
a. Is also an insured under a nuclear energy

liability policy issued by the:
(1) Nuclear Energy Liability Insurance

Association; 
(2) Mutual Atomic Energy Liability

Underwriters; 
(3) Nuclear Insurance Association of

Canada; 
or any of their successors; or

b. Would be an insured under such a policy
but for the exhaustion of its limit of liability;
or

6. "Bodily injury" to you or an "insured" as defined
under Definitions 5.a. or b.
This exclusion also applies to any claim made
or suit brought against you or an "insured":
a. To repay; or
b. Share damages with;
another person who may be obligated to pay
damages because of "bodily injury" to an
"insured".

G. Coverage M – Medical Payments To Others 
Coverage M does not apply to "bodily injury": 
1. To a "residence employee" if the "bodily injury":

a. Occurs off the "insured location"; and 
b. Does not arise out of or in the course of the

"residence employee's" employment by an
"insured"; 

2. To any person eligible to receive benefits
voluntarily provided or required to be provided
under any: 
a. Workers' compensation law; 
b. Non-occupational disability law; or 
c. Occupational disease law; 

3. From any: 
a. Nuclear reaction; 
b. Nuclear radiation; or
c. Radioactive contamination; 
all whether controlled or uncontrolled or
however caused; or 

d. Any consequence of any of these; or
4. To any person, other than a "residence

employee" of an "insured", regularly residing on
any part of the "insured location".

ADDITIONAL COVERAGES
We cover the following in addition to the limits of
liability: 
A. Claim Expenses

We pay: 
1. Expenses we incur and costs taxed against an

"insured" in any suit we defend; 
2. Premiums on bonds required in a suit we

defend, but not for bond amounts more than
the Coverage L limit of liability. We need not
apply for or furnish any bond;

3. Reasonable expenses incurred by an "insured"
at our request, including actual loss of earnings
(but not loss of other income) up to $250 per
day, for assisting us in the investigation or
defense of a claim or suit; and 

4. Interest on the entire judgment which accrues
after entry of the judgment and before we pay
or tender, or deposit in court that part of the
judgment which does not exceed the limit of
liability that applies.

B. First Aid Expenses
We will pay expenses for first aid to others
incurred by an "insured" for "bodily injury" covered
under this policy. We will not pay for first aid to an
"insured". 

C. Damage To Property Of Others
1. We will pay, at replacement cost, up to $1,000

per "occurrence" for "property damage" to
property of others caused by an "insured". 

2. We will not pay for "property damage": 
a. Caused intentionally by an "insured" who is

13 years of age or older;
b. To property owned by an "insured";
c. To property owned by or rented to a tenant

of an "insured" or a resident in your
household; or

d. Arising out of:
(1) A "business" engaged in by an

"insured"; 
(2) Any act or omission in connection with a

premises owned, rented or controlled by
an "insured", other than the "insured
location"; or 



 
Page  8  of 9 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DL 24 01 12 02  
 

(3) The ownership, maintenance,
occupancy, operation, use, loading or
unloading of aircraft, hovercraft,
watercraft or "motor vehicles". 
This Exclusion d.(3) does not apply to a
"motor vehicle" that:

(a) Is designed for recreational use off
public roads;

(b) Is not owned by an "insured"; and 
(c) At the time of the "occurrence", is not

required by law, or regulation issued
by a government agency, to have
been registered for it to be used on
public roads or property.

CONDITIONS
A. Limit Of Liability

Our total liability under Coverage L for all
damages resulting from any one "occurrence" will
not be more than the Coverage L limit of liability
shown in the Declarations. This limit is the same
regardless of the number of "insureds", claims
made or persons injured. All "bodily injury" and
"property damage" resulting from any one accident
or from continuous or repeated exposure to
substantially the same general harmful conditions
shall be considered to be the result of one
"occurrence".
Our total liability under Coverage M for all medical
expense payable for "bodily injury" to one person
as the result of one accident will not be more than
the Coverage M limit of liability shown in the
Declarations.

B. Severability Of Insurance
This insurance applies separately to each
"insured". This condition will not increase our limit
of liability for any one "occurrence".

C. Duties After "Occurrence"
In case of an "occurrence", you or another
"insured" will perform the following duties that
apply. We have no duty to provide coverage under
this policy if your failure to comply with the
following duties is prejudicial to us. You will help
us by seeing that these duties are performed:
1. Give written notice to us or our agent as soon

as is practical, which sets forth:
a. The identity of the policy and the "named

insured" shown in the Declarations; 
b. Reasonably available information on the

time, place and circumstances of the
"occurrence"; and 

c. Names and addresses of any claimants and
witnesses; 

2. Cooperate with us in the investigation,
settlement or defense of any claim or suit;

3. Promptly forward to us every notice, demand,
summons or other process relating to the
"occurrence"; 

4. At our request, help us: 
a. To make settlement; 
b. To enforce any right of contribution or

indemnity against any person or
organization who may be liable to an
"insured"; 

c. With the conduct of suits and attend
hearings and trials; and 

d. To secure and give evidence and obtain the
attendance of witnesses; 

5. With respect to C. Damage To Property Of
Others under Additional Coverages, submit to
us within 60 days after the loss, a sworn
statement of loss and show the damaged
property, if in an "insured's" control;

6. No "insured" shall, except at such "insured's"
own cost, voluntarily make payment, assume
obligation or incur expense other than for first
aid to others at the time of the "bodily injury".

D. Duties Of An Injured Person – Coverage M –
Medical Payments To Others
1. The injured person or someone acting for the

injured person will:
a. Give us written proof of claim, under oath if

required, as soon as is practical; and 
b. Authorize us to obtain copies of medical

reports and records.
2. The injured person will submit to a physical

exam by a doctor of our choice when and as
often as we reasonably require. 

E. Payment Of Claim – Coverage M – Medical
Payments To Others
Payment under this coverage is not an admission
of liability by an "insured" or us.

F. Suit Against Us
1. No action can be brought against us unless

there has been full compliance with all of the
terms under this policy. 

2. No one will have the right to join us as a party
to any action against an "insured".

3. Also, no action with respect to Coverage L can
be brought against us until the obligation of
such "insured" has been determined by final
judgment or agreement signed by us. 



 
DL 24 01 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  9  of 9  
 

G. Bankruptcy Of An "Insured" 
Bankruptcy or insolvency of an "insured" will not
relieve us of our obligations under this policy.

H. Other Insurance
This insurance is excess over other valid and
collectible insurance except insurance written
specifically to cover as excess over the limits of
liability that apply in this policy.

I. Policy Period
This policy applies only to "bodily injury" or
"property damage" which occurs during the policy
period. 

J. Subrogation
An "insured" may waive in writing before a loss all
rights of recovery against any person. If not
waived, we may require an assignment of rights of
recovery for a loss to the extent that payment is
made by us. 

If an assignment is sought, an "insured" must sign
and deliver all related papers and cooperate with
us. 
Subrogation does not apply to Coverage M or
Paragraph C. Damage To Property Of Others
under Additional Coverages. 

K. Concealment Or Fraud
We do not provide coverage to an "insured" who,
whether before or after a loss, has:
1. Intentionally concealed or misrepresented any

material fact or circumstance;
2. Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or
3. Made false statements;
relating to this insurance.

 



POLICY NUMBER: PERSONAL LIABILITY
 DL 24 11 12 02
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 

DL 24 11 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  1  of 1   
 

PREMISES LIABILITY
(Non-Owner Occupied Dwelling)

 
SCHEDULE*

 
Location*
22 Diana Court Wading River, NY 11792
 
 
 
 
 
Number of Families*
 
 
 
 
*Entries may be left blank if shown elsewhere in this policy for this coverage.
 
DEFINITIONS
Definition 6. "Insured location" is extended to include
the premises shown in the Schedule above.
LIABILITY COVERAGES
Coverage L  –  Personal  Liability  and  Coverage  M  –
Medical Payments To Others are restricted to apply
only  with  respect  to  "bodily  injury"  and  "property
damage" arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
occupancy or use of the premises shown below. 

EXCLUSIONS
Exclusion E.2. does not apply to the premises shown
in the Schedule. 
All other provisions of this policy apply.



 PERSONAL LIABILITY
 DL 24 16 12 02
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A REDUCTION OF COVERAGE.
 

DL 24 16 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  1  of 1   
 

NO COVERAGE FOR
HOME DAY CARE BUSINESS

 
A. "Business", as defined in the policy, means:

1. A trade, profession or occupation engaged in
on a full time, part-time or occasional basis; or

2. Any other activity engaged in for money or
other compensation, except the following:
a. One or more activities: 

(1) Not described in b. through d. below, 
(2) For which no "insured" receives more

than $2,000 in total compensation for
the 12 months before the beginning of
the policy period;

b. Volunteer activities for which no money is
received other than payment for expenses
incurred to perform the activity;

c. Providing home day care services for which
no compensation is received, other than the
mutual exchange of such services; or

d. The rendering of home day care services to
a relative of an "insured".

B. If an "insured" regularly provides home day care
services to a person or persons other than
"insureds" as their trade, profession or occupation,
that service is a "business".

C. If home day care service is not a given "insured's"
trade, profession or occupation but is an activity:
1. That an "insured" engages in for money or

other compensation; and 
2. From which an "insured" receives more than

$2,000 in total/combined compensation from it
for the 12 months before the beginning of the
policy period, 

the home day care service and other activity will
be considered a "business". 

D. With respect to C. above home day care service is
only an example of an activity engaged in for
money that may be a "business". Any single
activity or combination of activities: 
1. Described in A.2. above, and
2. Engaged in for money by a single "insured";
may be considered a "business" if the $2000
threshold is exceeded.

E. With respect to A. through D. above, coverage
does not apply with respect to home day care
service which is a "business". This policy does not
provide coverage because a "business" of an
"insured" is excluded under Exclusion E.2.



CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1

 

CCD 13 MSP 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page 1 of 1

 

 

 
NEW YORK 

MANDATORY SPECIAL PROVISIONS
 
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 
 

DOG LIABILITY EXCLUSION
“Form DL 24 01 12 02 – Personal Liability”, is amended by the addition of the following exclusion.
We do not pay for any bodily injury or property damage arising out of any occurrence involving any animal or 
breed of dog listed below owned by or in the care of the insured or his agent(s) or tenant of the described 
location.

1. The following types of pure bred dogs:
· American  Staffordshire  Terriers,  American  Pit  Bull  Terriers,  or  Staffordshire  Bull  Terriers,  all

commonly known as Pit Bulls;
· Doberman Pinschers;
· Rottweilers;
· Chows;
· Presa Canarios;
· Wolves; or

2. Dogs that have been trained to attack persons, property or other animals;
3. Dogs that have been trained to guard persons or property;
4. Any dog used in any manner, as a fighting dog or breed specifically for fighting;
5. Any dog with a prior history of biting or attacking persons, property or other animals as established through 

insurance claims records, or through the records of local public safety, law enforcement or other similar
regulatory agency;

6. Any dog that has not had inoculations as required by law.
This exclusion does not apply to guide dogs, hearing dogs or other dogs trained to assist the physically 
challenged.

 
 
 

TRAMPOLINE LIABILITY EXCLUSION
Under “FORM DL 24 01 12 02 - LIABILITY COVERAGES” there is no coverage for damages caused by or 
originating from any trampoline owned by, or in the care, custody or control of any insured person, whether or not 
the injury occurred on the insured premises or any other location.

 
 
 

PERSONAL WATERCRAFT EXCLUSION
Under “COVERAGE C – Personal Property, 2. Property Not Covered”, we do not cover physical damage on 
any loss caused by or originating from the ownership or operation of any personal watercraft (jet skis, wave 
runners, etc.).

 
 

Under “FORM DL 24 01 12 02 - LIABILITY COVERAGES” there is no coverage for damages caused by or 
originating  from  the  ownership  or  operation  of  any  personal  watercraft  (jet  skis,  wave  runners,  etc.).

 
All other policy provisions apply.



CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14CCD 13 MSP 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1

 

CCD 13 MSP 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page 1 of 1

 

 



CCD 13 LEF 10 14CCD 13 LEF 10 14CCD 13 LEF 10 14CCD 13 LEF 10 14CCD 13 LEF 10 14CCD 13 LEF 10 14 Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1

 

 
CCD 13 LEF 10 14 Page 1 of 1 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT 
CAREFULLY.

 
 
 
 

ESCAPED FUELS EXCLUSION
 

Under,
Form DL 24 01 12 02 - Exclusions
The following exclusion is added:
9. Escaped Fuels
a. “Bodily injury or “property damage” arising out of the discharge, dispersal, release or escape of 

oil, fuel oil, kerosene, liquid propane or gasoline intended for, or from, a storage tank.
b. Liability imposed upon any “insured” by any governmental authority arising out of the discharge, 

dispersal, release or escape of oil, fuel oil, kerosene, liquid propane or gasoline intended for, 
or from, a storage tank.

c. Any loss, cost, or expense arising out of any request, demand, or order that any insured test 
for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify, neutralize, or in any way respond to or 
assess the  effects of the discharge, dispersal, release or escape of oil, fuel oil, kerosene, liquid   
propane, or gasoline intended for, or from, a storage tank.

 
However, this exclusion E.9 does not apply when the discharge, dispersal, release or escape is 
sudden and accidental.

 
All other provisions of this policy apply.

 



CCD 13 FMR 10 14CCD 13 FMR 10 14 Page  1  of 
2
Page  1  of 
2

Includes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permissionIncludes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permission  CCD 13 FMR 10 14 Page  1  of 
2

Includes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permission

 

 
LIMITED FUNGI, MOLD, WET OR DRY ROT,

OR BACTERIA COVERAGE

 
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

 
SCHEDULE*

Section I - Property Coverage Limit of Liability for the Additional
Coverage "Fungi", Mold, Wet Or Dry Rot, Or Bacteria

 
$20,000 Each Covered Loss

* Entries may be left blank if shown elsewhere in this policy (on the Declarations page) for this coverage.
 

DEFINITIONS

The following definition is added: "Fungi"
a. "Fungi" means any type or form of fungus, including mold or mildew, and any mycotoxins, spores, scents or by-
products produced or released by fungi.
b. Under Form DL 24 01 12 02, this does not include any fungi that are, are on, or are contained in, a good or 
product intended for consumption.

 
 
 

F. Other Coverages
The following Additional Coverage is added:
"Fungi", Wet or Dry Rot, or Bacteria

a. The amount shown in the Schedule above is the most we will pay for:
(1) The total of all loss payable under Property Coverage caused by "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria;
(2) The  cost to  remove "fungi",  wet  or dry rot, or bacteria  from  property covered under Property

Coverage;

(3) The cost to tear out and replace any part of the building or other covered property as needed to gain 
access to the "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria; and

(4) The cost of testing  of  air  or  property to confirm  the  absence,  presence  or  level of  "fungi",  wet  or  
dry rot, or bacteria whether performed prior to, during or after removal, repair, restoration  or  replacement. 
The cost of such testing will be provided only to the extent that there is a reason to believe that there is
the presence of "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria.

Covered loss caused by fire or lightning is not subject to the limitation shown in the Schedule above.

b. The coverage described in a. only applies when such loss or costs, are a result of an Insured Peril, occur during
the policy period and only if all reasonable means were used to save and preserve the property from 
further damage at and after the time the loss occurred.

c. The Each Covered Loss amount shown in the Schedule for this coverage is the most we will pay for the total of all
 loss or costs payable under this Additional Coverage resulting from any one covered loss;

d. If  there  is covered loss or damage  to covered property, not caused,  in  whole or  in part, by "fungi", wet 
or dry rot,  or bacteria, loss payment will not be limited by the terms of this  Additional  Coverage, except  to 
the extent that "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria causes an increase in the loss. Any such increase in the 
loss will be subject to the terms of this Additional Coverage.

This coverage does not increase the limit of liability applying to the damaged covered property.



CCD 13 FMR 10 14CCD 13 FMR 10 14CCD 13 FMR 10 14CCD 13 FMR 10 14CCD 13 FMR 10 14CCD 13 FMR 10 14 Page  2  
of2
Page  2  Page  2  
of2
Page  2  Page  2  Page  2  
of2

Includes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permissionIncludes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permissionIncludes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permissionIncludes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permissionIncludes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permissionIncludes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permission

  
CCD 13 FMR 10 14 Page  2  

of2
Includes copyrighted materials of ISO, Inc. with its permission 

 

 
LIMITED FUNGI, MOLD, WET OR DRY ROT,

OR BACTERIA COVERAGE

 
 
 

GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
The following Exclusion is added.

1.i. Loss due to "Fungi", Wet or Dry Rot, or Bacteria.  "Fungi", Wet Or Dry Rot, Or Bacteria meaning the presence, 
growth, proliferation, spread or any activity of "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria.
This Exclusion does not apply:
(1) When "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria results from fire or lightning; or

(2) To the extent coverage is provided for in the “Fungi", Wet Or Dry Rot, Or Bacteria Additional Coverage 
under Coverages with respect to loss caused by an insured peril other than fire or lightning.

Direct loss by an insured peril – subject to certain limitations and exclusions, resulting from "fungi", wet or dry rot, or 
bacteria is covered.

 
 

CONDITIONS
Condition A. Policy Period is deleted and replaced with the following:

2. Policy Period
This   policy applies only to loss or costs   in Coverages, which occurs during the policy period.

 
All other policy provisions apply.



CCD 13 LAF 10 14CCD 13 LAF 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page  1  of
 3
Page  1  of
 3

 CCD 13 LAF 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page  1  of
 3

 

 
NEW YORK

LEAD ABATEMENT PROVISIONS
 
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 

Form DL 24 01 12 02 PERSONAL LIABILITY is amended as follows:
 

A. Under DEFINITIONS, Part B, the following definitions are added:
12. “Certified contractor” means an abatement contractor, inspector, risk assessor or supervisor and their 
employees who have successfully completed a certified “lead abatement” training program and have met
any other requirements for obtaining and maintaining certification or licensing as established by the United 
States Environmental Protection Agency, New York State, or any state which has implemented such a 
certification program.
13. “Certified report” means a written report completed by a “certified contractor” which details the results 
of the inspection and the testing at the “residence premises” for the presence of lead.
14. “Lead abatement” means any measure or set of measures designed to permanently eliminate lead- 
based hazards, including, but not limited to:

a. The removal of lead-based paint and lead-contaminated dust, the permanent enclosure or 
encapsulation of lead-based paint, the replacement of lead-painted surfaces or fixtures, and the 
removal or covering of lead-contaminated soil; and

b. All preparation, clean-up, disposal and post-abatement clearance testing activities associated with
these measures.

15. “Lead-safe” means conditions at the “residence premises” have been established by a “certified 
contractor” through inspection, testing and completion of a “certified report” which states:

a. The “residence premises” is free of lead; or
b. Exposure to lead has been controlled by “lead abatement” procedures.

B. Under CONDITIONS, the following conditions are added:
L. What Law Will Apply
This policy is issued in accordance with the laws of New York and covers property risks principally
located in New York. Subject to the following paragraph, the laws of New York shall govern any and all 
claims or disputes in any way related to this policy.
If a covered loss to property, or any other “occurrence” for which coverage applies under this policy 
happens outside New York, claims or disputes regarding that covered loss to property, or any other 
covered “occurrence” may be governed by the laws of the jurisdiction in which that covered loss to 
property, or other covered “occurrence” happened, only if the laws of that jurisdiction would apply in the 
absence of a contractual choice of law provision such as this.

M. Where Lawsuits May Be Brought
Subject to the following two paragraphs, any and all lawsuits in any way related to this policy, shall be 
brought, heard and decided only in a state or federal court located in New York. Any and all lawsuits 
against persons not parties to this policy but involved in the sale, administration, performance, or 
alleged breach of this policy, or otherwise related to this policy, shall be brought, heard and decided 
only in a state or federal court located in New York, provided that such persons are subject to or 
consent to suit in the courts specified in this paragraph.
If a covered loss to property, or any other “occurrence” for which coverage applies under this policy 
happens outside New York, lawsuits regarding that covered loss to property, or any other covered 
“occurrence” may also be brought in the judicial district where that covered loss to property, or any 
other covered “occurrence” happened.



CCD 13 LAF 10 14CCD 13 LAF 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page  2  of
 3
Page  2  of
 3

 CCD 13 LAF 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page  2  of
 3

 

 
NEW YORK

LEAD ABATEMENT PROVISIONS
 

Nothing in this provision, Where Lawsuits May Be Brought, shall impair any party’s right to remove a
state court lawsuit to a federal court.

Under LIABILITY COVERAGES, the following changes have been made:
EXCLUSIONS F. Coverage L- Personal Liability, the following exclusions are added.

7. Coverage L does not apply to “bodily injury” or “property damage” arising out of:
a. lead in any form; or
b. The discharge, dispersal, release or escape of oil, fuel oil, kerosene, liquid propane or gasoline

intended for, or from, a storage tank. This exclusion does not apply when the discharge,
dispersal, release or escape is sudden and accidental.

Coverage L does apply to “bodily injury” or “property damage” arising out of lead:
a. in that portion of the “residence premises” occupied by “you” and which is not used for 

“business” purposes; or
b. In any building on or portion of the “residence premises” that was built in 1980 or later or which 

has undergone “lead abatement” procedures and has been inspected by a “certified contractor” 
and found to be “lead-safe”.

8. Coverage L does not apply to any liability imposed upon any “insured” by any governmental 
authority arising out of:

a. lead in any form; or
b. The discharge, dispersal, release or escape of oil, fuel oil, kerosene, liquid propane or gasoline

intended for, or from, a storage tank. This exclusion does not apply when the discharge, 
dispersal, release or escape is sudden and accidental.

Coverage L does apply to “bodily injury” or “property damage” arising out of lead:
a. in that portion of the “residence premises” occupied by “you” and which is not used for 

“business” purposes; or
b. In any building on or portion of the “residence premises” that was built in 1980 or later or which 

has undergone “lead abatement” procedures and has been inspected by a “certified contractor”
and found to be “lead-safe”.

9. Coverage L does not apply to any loss, cost, or expense arising out of any request, demand, or 
order that any “insured” test for, monitor, clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify, or neutralize or 
in any way respond to or assess the effects of:

a. lead in any form; or
b. The discharge, dispersal, release or escape of oil, fuel oil, kerosene, liquid propane or gasoline

intended for, or from, a storage tank. This exclusion does not apply when the discharge, 
dispersal, release or escape is sudden and accidental.

Coverage L does apply to “bodily injury” or “property damage” arising out of lead:
a. in that portion of the “residence premises” occupied by “you” and which is not used for 

“business” purposes; or
b. In any building on or portion of the “residence premises” that was built in 1980 or later or which 

has undergone “lead abatement” procedures and has been inspected by a “certified contractor” 
and found to be “lead-safe”.

 

Under EXCLUSIONS G. Coverage M- Medical Payments to Others, the following exclusion is added:
5. Coverage M does not apply to “bodily injury” arising out of:



CCD 13 LAF 10 14CCD 13 LAF 10 14CCD 13 LAF 10 14CCD 13 LAF 10 14CCD 13 LAF 10 14CCD 13 LAF 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page  3  of
 3
Page  3  of
 3
Page  3  of
 3
Page  3  of
 3
Page  3  of
 3
Page  3  of
 3

 
CCD 13 LAF 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page  3  of

 3
 

 

 
NEW YORK

LEAD ABATEMENT PROVISIONS
 

a. lead in any form; or
b. The discharge, dispersal, release or escape of oil, fuel oil, kerosene, liquid propane or gasoline

 intended for, or from, a storage tank. This exclusion does not apply when the discharge, 
dispersal, release or escape is sudden and accidental.

Coverage L does apply to “bodily injury” or “property damage” arising out of lead:
a. in that portion of the “residence premises” occupied by “you” and which is not used for “business”

purposes; or
b. In any building on or portion of the “residence premises” that was built in 1980 or later or which has

undergone “lead abatement” procedures and has been inspected by a “certified contractor” and 
found to be “lead-safe”.

 

All other policy terms and conditions apply.

 



 PERSONAL LIABILITY
 DL 24 15 12 04
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 

DL 24 15 12 04 © ISO Properties, Inc., 2003 Page  1  of 2   
 

WORKERS' COMPENSATION 
CERTAIN RESIDENCE EMPLOYEES – NEW YORK

 
We agree, with respect to covered "residence
employees":
WHO IS COVERED
A covered "residence employee" under this
endorsement is a "residence employee" who is
engaged in regular employment of less than 40 hours
per week or is engaged in casual employment.
However, as stated in New York Insurance Law
Section 3420(j)(1), coverage does not apply to an
employee who is not required, under New York
Workers' Compensation Law, to be covered.
Attachment of this endorsement does not constitute a
voluntary election of coverage under New York
Workers' Compensation Law.
UNDER COVERAGE I
To pay when due all benefits required of an "insured"
by the New York Workers' Compensation Law; and 
UNDER COVERAGE II
To pay on behalf of an "insured" all damages for
which the "insured" is legally liable because of "bodily
injury" sustained by a covered "residence employee".
The "bodily injury" must be caused by accident or
disease and arise out of and in the course of
employment by the "insured" while: 

a. In the United States of America, its territories or
possessions, or Canada; or 

b. Temporarily elsewhere if the "residence
employee" is a citizen or resident of the United
States or Canada. 

APPLICATION OF COVERAGE
This insurance applies only to "bodily injury" which
occurs during the policy period. If the "bodily injury" is
a disease, it must be caused or aggravated by the
conditions of the covered "residence employee's"
employment by the "insured".
The covered "residence employee's" last day of last
exposure to the conditions causing or aggravating
such "bodily injury" by disease must occur during the
policy period. 

POLICY PROVISIONS
This insurance is subject to all the provisions of this
endorsement and the following provisions of this
policy: 

1. Under the policy Conditions:
B. Waiver or Change of Policy Provisions. 
C. Assignment. 
E. Cancellation. 

2. Under Form DL 24 01: 
a. The definition of "bodily injury", "business",

"insured" and "residence employee". 
b. Our agreement to defend the "insured" as

provided under Coverage L  –  Personal
Liability. 

3. Under the Additional Coverages: 
A. Claim Expenses.

4. The following Conditions: 
C. Duties After "Occurrence". 
F. Suit Against Us. 
G. Bankruptcy Of An Insured. 
J. Subrogation. 

ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO
COVERAGE I
The following provisions are applicable to Coverage I: 

a. As between the covered "residence employee"
and us, notice to or knowledge of the
occurrence of the injury on the part of an
"insured" will be deemed notice or knowledge
on our part. 

b. The jurisdiction of an "insured" will, for the
purpose of the law imposing liability for
compensation, be our jurisdiction.



 
Page  2  of 2 © ISO Properties, Inc., 2003 DL 24 15 12 04  
 

ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO
COVERAGE II
Coverage II does not apply to any suit brought in or
judgment rendered by any court outside the United
States of America, its territories and possessions, or
Canada, or to any action on such judgment.
LIMITS OF LIABILITY COVERAGE II
We may not limit our liability to pay damages for
which we become legally liable to pay because of
"bodily injury" to an "insured's" covered "residence
employees" if the "bodily injury" arises out of and in
the course of employment that is subject to and is
compensable under the Workers' Compensation Law
of New York. 
OTHER INSURANCE
If a loss covered by this insurance is also covered by
other insurance, we will not pay more than our share
of benefits and costs. The shares of all applicable
insurance will be equal until the loss is paid. However,
if a loss covered by this insurance is also covered by
insurance written to cover business employees of an
"insured" who is sole proprietor, this insurance is
primary. 
CONFORMITY TO STATUTE
If any term of this insurance is in conflict with the New
York Workers' Compensation Law, such term is
amended by this statement to conform to that law. 

EXCLUSIONS
This policy does not apply: 

a. To liability for "bodily injury" arising out of
"business" pursuits of an "insured".

b. Under Coverage II:
1. To liability assumed by the "insured" under

any contract or agreement. 
2. To any obligation under a workers'

compensation, unemployment or disability
benefits law or any similar law. 

3. To punitive or exemplary damage because
of "bodily injury" to a covered "residence
employee" employed in violation of law. 

4. To "bodily injury" to a covered "residence
employee" employed in violation of law with
the knowledge of an "insured".

5. To "bodily injury" intentionally caused or
aggravated by an "insured". 

6. To damages arising out of the unlawful
discharge or coercion of, or unlawful
discrimination against, a covered
"residence employee".



 PERSONAL LIABILITY
 DL 25 31 02 10
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 

DL 25 31 02 10 © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009 Page  1  of 2   
 

SPECIAL PROVISIONS – NEW YORK
 
LIABILITY COVERAGES 
A. Coverage L – Personal Liability

Paragraph 2. is replaced by the following:
2. Provide a defense at our expense by counsel

of our choice, even if the suit is groundless,
false or fraudulent. We may investigate and
settle any claim or suit that we decide is
appropriate. 

EXCLUSIONS 
E. Coverage L – Personal Liability Coverage And

Coverage M – Medical Payments To Others
Paragraph 1. is replaced by the following:
1. Expected Or Intended Injury

"Bodily injury" or "property damage" which is
expected or intended by one or more
"insureds".

CONDITIONS 
C. Duties After "Occurrence"

The first paragraph and Paragraph 1. are replaced
by the following: 
C. Duties After "Occurrence"

In case of an "occurrence", you or another
"insured" or someone acting for the "insured"
will perform the following duties that apply. We
have no duty to provide coverage under this
policy if your failure to comply with the following
duties is prejudicial to us, except as provided
for in Paragraph 1. You will help us by seeing
that these duties are performed. Any written
notice given by any claimant to us or any of our
agents in this state, containing particulars
sufficient to identify you or another "insured",
will be deemed notice to us. 
1. Give written notice to us or any of our

agents in this state as soon as reasonably
possible, which sets forth: 
a. The identity of the policy and the

"named insured" shown in the
Declarations; 

b. Reasonably available information on the
time, place and circumstances of the
"occurrence"; and 

c. Names and addresses of any claimants
and witnesses; 

Failure to give notice to us as required under this
policy shall not invalidate any claim made by the
"insured", injured person or any other claimant,
unless the failure to provide such timely notice is
prejudicial to us. However, no claim made by the
"insured", injured person or any other claimant will
be invalidated if it shall be shown not to have been
reasonably possible to give such timely notice and
that notice was given as soon as was reasonably
possible thereafter.

D. Duties Of An Injured Person – Coverage M –
Medical Payments To Others 
Paragraph 1.a. is replaced by the following:
1. The injured person or someone acting for the

injured person will:
a. Give us or any of our agents in this state

written proof of claim, under oath if
required, as soon as is practical; and

F. Suit Against Us
The following provisions are added:
4. If we deny coverage or do not admit liability for

damages arising from "bodily injury" caused by
an "occurrence" because an "insured" or the
injured person, someone acting for the injured
person or other claimant fails to give us or any
of our agents in this state notice as soon as
reasonably possible, then the injured person,
someone acting for the injured person or other
claimant may bring an action against us, in
which the sole question is whether the denial of
coverage or nonadmission of liability is based
on the failure to provide notice as soon as
reasonably possible.
However, the injured person, someone acting
for the injured person or other claimant may not
bring an action if, within 60 days after we deny
coverage or do not admit liability for damages
because of "bodily injury", we or an "insured":
a. Brings an action to declare the rights of the

parties under the policy; and
b. Names the injured person, someone acting

for the injured person or other claimant as a
party to the action.



 
Page  2  of 2 © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2009 DL 25 31 02 10  
 

5. If we fail to pay for damages because of "bodily
injury" or "property damage" caused by an
"occurrence" within 30 days after serving of
notice of entry of judgment upon the "insured"
and us, then an action may be maintained
against us for the amount of the judgment, up
to the Limit of Liability.
However, this does not apply during a stay or
limited stay of execution against the "insured"
on such judgment.

K. Concealment Or Fraud is replaced by the
following:
K. Concealment Or Fraud

We do not provide coverage for the "insured"
who, whether before or after a loss, has:
1. Intentionally concealed or misrepresented

any material fact or circumstance; or
2. Engaged in fraudulent conduct;
relating to this insurance.

All other provisions of this policy apply.



 PERSONAL LIABILITY
 DL 24 86 12 11
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 

DL 24 86 12 11 © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2011 Page  1  of 3   
 

PERSONAL INJURY – NEW YORK
 

 
DEFINITIONS
The following definition is added:
"Personal injury" means injury arising out of one or
more of the following offenses, but only if the offense
was committed during the policy period:
1. False arrest, detention or imprisonment, or
2. Malicious prosecution; 
3. The wrongful eviction from, wrongful entry into, or

invasion of the right of private occupancy of a
room, dwelling or premises that a person
occupies, committed by or on behalf of its owner,
landlord or lessor;

4. Oral or written publication of material that slanders
or libels a person or organization or disparages a
person's or organization's goods, products or
services; or

5. Oral or written publication of material that violates
a person's right of privacy.

LIABILITY COVERAGES
A. Coverage L – Personal Liability

The following is added to Coverage L – Personal
Liability:
Personal Liability Coverage
If a claim is made or suit is brought against an
"insured" for damages resulting from an offense,
defined under "personal injury", to which this
coverage applies, we will:
1. Pay up to our limit of liability for the damages

for which an "insured" is legally liable.
Damages include prejudgment interest
awarded against an "insured"; and

2. Provide a defense at our expense by counsel
of our choice, even if the suit is groundless,
false or fraudulent. We may investigate and
settle any claim or suit that we decide is
appropriate.

EXCLUSIONS
The policy exclusions do not apply to "personal injury".
With respect to the coverage provided by this
endorsement, the policy exclusions are replaced by
the following:
This insurance does not apply to "personal injury": 
1. Caused by or at the direction of an "insured" with

the knowledge that the act would violate the rights
of another and would inflict "personal injury";

2. Arising out of oral or written publication of material,
if done by or at the direction of an "insured" with
knowledge of its falsity;

3. Arising out of oral or written publication of material
whose first publication took place before the
beginning of the policy period;

4. Arising out of a criminal act committed by or at the
direction of an "insured";

5. Arising out of liability assumed by an "insured"
under any contract or agreement except any
indemnity obligation assumed by an "insured"
under a written contract directly relating to the
ownership maintenance or use of the premises;

6. Sustained by any person as a result of an offense
directly or indirectly related to the employment of
this person by an "insured"; 

7. Arising out of or in connection with a "business"
conducted from an "insured location" or engaged
in by an "insured", whether or not the business is
owned or operated by an "insured". This exclusion
applies but is not limited to an act or omission,
regardless of its nature or circumstance, involving
a service or duty rendered, promised, owed or
implied to be provided because of the nature of the
business. 
This exclusion does not apply to:
a. The rental or holding for rental of an "insured

location";
(1) On an occasional basis if used only as a

residence;



 
Page  2  of 3 © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2011 DL 24 86 12 11  
 

(2) In part for use only as a residence, unless a
single-family unit is intended for use by the
occupying family to lodge more than two
roomers or boarders; or

(3) In part, as an office, school, studio or
private garage; and

b. An "insured" under the age of 21 years
involved in a part-time or occasional,
self-employed "business" with no employees;

8. Arising out of civic or public activities performed for
pay by an "insured"; or 

9. To you or an "insured" as defined under Definition 
5.a. or b.
This exclusion also applies to any claim made or
suit brought against you or any "insured": 
a. To repay; or 
b. Share damages with;
another person who may be obligated to pay
damages because of the "bodily injury" to an
"insured".

ADDITIONAL COVERAGES
With respect to the coverage provided by this
endorsement, Paragraph D. Loss Assessment is
added:
D. Loss Assessment

We will pay up to $1,000 for your share of loss
assessment charged against you, as an owner or
tenant of the "residence premises", during the
policy period by a corporation or association of
property owners, when the assessment is made as
a result of "personal injury" not excluded under this
endorsement.
We do not cover assessments charged against
you or a corporation or association of property
owners by any governmental body.
Regardless of the number of assessments, the
limit of $1,000 is the most we will pay for loss
arising out of "personal injury".

CONDITIONS
With respect to the coverage provided by this
endorsement, Condition I. Policy Period does not
apply and Conditions A. Limit Of Liability, B.
Severability Of Insurance, C. Duties After
"Occurrence" and F. Suit Against Us are replaced
by the following:
A. Limit Of Liability

Our total liability under "Personal Injury" Coverage
for all damages resulting from any one offense will
not be more than the Limit Of Liability shown in the
Declarations for Coverage E. This limit is the same
regardless of the number of "insured's", claims
made or suits brought.

B. Severability Of Insurance
This insurance applies separately to each
"insured". This condition will not increase our limit
of liability for any one offense.

C. Duties After Offense
In the event of a covered offense, you or another
"insured" will perform the following duties that
apply. We have no duty to provide coverage under
this policy if your failure to comply with the
following duties is prejudicial to us. You will help
us by seeing that these duties are performed:
1. Give written notice to us or our agent as soon

as is practical, which sets forth:
a. The identity of the policy and "named

insured";
b. Reasonably available information on the

time, place and circumstances of the
offense; and

c. Names and addresses of any claimants and
witnesses;

2. Cooperate with us in the investigation,
settlement or defense of any claim or suit;

3. Promptly forward to us every notice, demand,
summons or other process relating to the
offense;

4. At our request, help us:
a. To make settlement;
b. To enforce any right of contribution or

indemnity against any person or
organization who may be liable to an
"insured";

c. With the conduct of suits and attend
hearings and trials; and

d. To secure and give evidence and obtain the
attendance of witnesses;

5. No "insured" shall, except at such "insured's"
own cost, voluntarily make payment, assume
obligation or incur expense other than for first
aid to others at the time of the "personal injury".

F. Suit Against Us
1. No action can be brought against us unless

there has been full compliance with all of the
terms under this policy. 

2. No one will have the right to join us as a party
to any action against an "insured".

3. Also, no action with respect to Coverage L can
be brought against us until the obligation of
such "insured" has been determined by final
judgment or agreement signed by us. 



 
DL 24 86 12 11 © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2011 Page  3  of 3  
 

4. If we deny coverage or do not admit liability for
damages arising from "personal injury " caused
by an "occurrence" because an "insured" or the
injured person, someone acting for the injured
person or other claimant fails to give us or any
of our agents in this state notice as soon as
reasonably possible, then the injured person,
someone acting for the injured person or other
claimant may bring an action against us, in
which the sole question is whether the denial of
coverage or nonadmission of liability is based
on the failure to provide notice as soon as
reasonably possible.

However, the injured person, someone acting
for the injured person or other claimant may not
bring an action if, within 60 days after we deny
coverage or do not admit liability for damages
because of "personal injury", we or an
"insured":
a. Brings an action to declare the rights of the

parties under the policy; and
b. Names the injured person, someone acting

for the injured person or other claimant as a
party to the action.

All other provisions of this policy apply.
 



 DWELLING
 DP 05 31 12 02
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 

DP 05 31 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  1  of 2   
 

MODIFIED FUNCTIONAL REPLACEMENT COST 
LOSS SETTLEMENT

FORMS DP 00 02 AND DP 00 03 ONLY
 
CONDITIONS
The following definition is added when this
endorsement is attached to the policy: 
"Functional replacement cost" means the amount
which it would cost to repair or replace the damaged
building with less costly common construction
materials and methods which are functionally
equivalent to obsolete, antique or custom construction
materials and methods used in the original
construction of the building. 
E. Loss Settlement

Paragraph 2. is deleted and replaced by the
following: 
2. Buildings covered under Coverage A or B: 

a. If, at the time of loss, the amount of
insurance in this policy on the damaged
building is 80% or more of the "functional
replacement cost" of the building
immediately before the loss; and you
contract for repair or replacement of the
damaged building for the same use, within
180 days of the damage unless we and you
otherwise agree, we will pay, after
application of any deductible, the lesser of
the following amounts: 

(1) The limit of liability under this policy that
applies to the building; or 

(2) The necessary amount actually spent to
repair or replace the damaged building
on a "functional replacement cost" basis.
However, if this amount is less than the
actual cash value of that part of the
damaged building, we will settle the loss
on an actual cash value basis. 

b. If you do not make claim under 2.a. above,
we will pay, after application of any
deductible, the least of the following
amounts: 

(1) The limit of liability under this policy that
applies to the building; or 

(2) The actual cash value of the damaged
part of the building. 

c. If, at the time of loss, the amount of
insurance in this policy on the damaged
building is less than 80% of the "functional
replacement cost" of the building
immediately before the loss, we will pay the
greater of the following amounts, but not
more than the limit of liability under this
policy that applies to the building: 

(1) The actual cash value of that part of the
building damaged; or 

(2) That proportion of the cost to repair or
replace: 

(a) After application of any deductible;
and 

(b) Without deduction for depreciation; 
that part of the building damaged, which
the total amount of insurance in this
policy on the damaged building bears to
80% of the "functional replacement cost"
of the building. 

d. To determine the amount of insurance
required to equal 80% of the "functional
replacement cost" of the building
immediately before the loss, do not include
the value of: 

(1) Excavations, footings, foundations,
piers, or any other structures or devices
that support all or part of the building,
which are below the undersurface of the
lowest basement floor; 

(2) Those supports in (1) above which are
below the surface of the ground inside
the foundation walls, if there is no
basement; and 

(3) Underground flues, pipes, wiring and
drains. 



 
Page  2  of 2 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 DP 05 31 12 02  
 

e. If the actual cash value of the damage is
less than the "functional replacement cost"
then: 

(1) We will pay no more than the actual
cash value of the damage until
replacement is complete. Once
replacement is complete, we will settle
the loss according to the provisions of 
2.a. and c. above. 
However, if the cost to functionally repair
the damage is both: 

(a) Less than 5% of the amount of
insurance in this policy on the
building; and 

(b) Less than $2,500; 
we will settle the loss according to the
provisions of 2.a. and c. above whether
or not replacement is complete. 

2. You may disregard the "functional
replacement cost" loss settlement
provisions and make claim under this
policy for loss to buildings on an actual
cash value basis. 
You may then make claim for any
additional liability according to the
provisions of this Condition E. Loss
Settlement, provided you notify us of
your intent to do so within 180 days of
the date of loss. 

All other provisions of this policy apply. 



 
Dwelling Fire
CCD 13 WBU 01 14

 
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

WATER BACK UP AND
SUMP DISCHARGE OR OVERFLOW – NEW YORK

 
 
 

A. Coverage
We insure, up to $5,000, for direct physical loss,
not caused by the negligence of an "insured" other
than an insured minor or unemancipated child, to
property covered under Section I caused by water,
or water-borne material, which:
1. Backs up through sewers or drains; or
2. Overflows or is discharged from a:

a. Sump, sump pump; or
b. Related equipment;
even if such overflow or discharge results from
mechanical breakdown. This coverage does 
not apply to direct physical loss of the sump
pump, or related equipment, which is caused
by mechanical breakdown.

This coverage does not increase the limits of
liability for Coverages A, B, C or D stated in the 
Declarations.

B. Section I – Perils Insured Against
With respect to the coverage described in A. 
above, Paragraph:
A.2.c.(8)(b) in Form DP 00 03
is deleted and replaced by the following:
Latent defect, inherent vice, or any quality in 
property that causes it to damage or destroy itself;

 

C. Special Deductible
The following replaces any other deductible 
provision in this policy with respect to loss 
covered under this endorsement.
We will pay only that part of the total of all loss
payable under Section I that exceeds $250. No
other deductible applies to this coverage. This 
deductible does not apply with respect to Coverage
D – Fair Rental Value and, if covered, Coverage E
– Additional Living Expense.

 
 

D. General Exclusions
The Water Damage exclusion is deleted and re-
placed by the following:
Water Damage, meaning:
a. Flood, surface water, waves, including tidal 

wave and tsunami, tides, tidal water, 
overflow of any body of water, or spray from
any of these, all whether or not driven by 
wind, including storm surge;

b. Water which:
1) Backs up through sewers or 

drains; or
2) Overflows or is otherwise 

dis- charged from a sump, 
sump pump or related 
equipment;

As a direct or indirect result of flood:
 

c. Water below the surface of the ground, 
including water which exerts pressure on,
or seeps, leaks or flows through a building,
 sidewalk, driveway, patio, foundation, 
swimming pool or other structure; or

d. Waterborne material carried or
otherwise moved  by  any  of  the  

water  referred  to  in
D.3.a. through D.3.c of this Exclusion.

 
This Exclusion applies regardless of whether
any of the above, in D.3.a. through D.3.d. is
caused by an act of nature or is otherwise
caused.

 
This Exclusion applies to, but is not limited to,
escape, overflow or discharge, for any reason,
of water or waterborne material from a dam,
levee, seawall or any other boundary or 
containment system.

However, direct loss by fire, explosion or theft 
resulting from any of the above, in D.3.a. 
through D.3.d. is covered.

(In forms DP 00 01 and DP 00 03, this is paragraph 
A.3)

All other provisions of this policy apply.
 



 
 
 
 

CCD 13 WBU 10 14 Page 1 of 1



 
 



CCD 13 FN 10 14CCD 13 FN 10 14CCD 13 FN 10 14CCD 13 FN 10 14CCD 13 FN 10 14CCD 13 FN 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance CompanyOcean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1Page 1 of 1 CCD 13 FN 10 14 Ocean Harbor Casualty Insurance Company Page 1 of 1
 

 

 
IMPORTANT FLOOD INSURANCE NOTICE

TO POLICYHOLDERS

 
 

Your homeowners or dwelling policy does NOT provide coverage 
for loss caused by flood or mudslide, which is defined, in part, by 
the National Flood Insurance Program as:

 
A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of 
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waters or from the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any 
source.

 
 

If you are required by your mortgage lender to have flood insurance on your 
property, or if you feel that your property is susceptible to flood damage, insurance 
covering damage from flood is available on most buildings and contents in 
participating communities through the National Flood Insurance Program.

 
 

Information about flood insurance and whether your community participates in the 
program can be obtained from your insurance company, from your insurance 
agent/broker, or directly from the National Flood Insurance Program by calling
1-800-638-6620 or via their website at http://www.floodsmart.gov.

 
 





 
POLICY NUMBER: Dwelling Fire
 
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

CATASTROPHE WINDSTORM DEDUCTIBLE – NEW YORK
CATASTROPHE PERCENTAGE

 
SCHEDULE

 

Catastrophe Windstorm Deductible Percentage Amount: 1%%
Information required to complete this Schedule, if not shown above, will be shown in the Declarations.

 
 
 

 
SECTION I – CONDITIONS
B. Deductible

The following special deductible is added to the 
policy:
With respect to the peril of Windstorm, for any one 
loss, we will pay only that part of the total of all loss 
payable that exceeds the windstorm deductible 
amounts noted below.

1. A percentage deductible applies to windstorm loss 
that occurs within a period of 12 hours before or 
12 hours after the storm which caused the loss:

1. Makes landfall anywhere with category 1 or
higher force winds in the state of New York as
determined by the National Weather Service,
or

2. Makes landfall outside of New York State but
which is determined by the National Weather
Service to have category 1 or higher force winds
in the territory within New York State in which
the losses occur.

The dollar amount of the windstorm deductible is 
determined by multiplying the Coverage A Limit 
Of Liability shown in the Declarations by the 
percentage amount shown in the Schedule above.
a. This deductible amount does not apply to loss 

under Coverage D – Loss Of Use. Instead, if
 the amount actually deducted from a loss 
described in this Paragraph 1. is:
1)  The same or more than the deductible 

amount stated in Paragraph 2., then no 
deductible will apply to the Coverage D 
loss; or

2)  Less   than   the   deductible   
amount stated in Paragraph 2., then 
the deductible amount that applies 
to the Coverage D loss will be the 
difference between the amount 
actually deducted, as described in 
this Paragraph 1., and the 
deductible set forth in Paragraph 2. 
below.

b. The National Weather Service currently 
uses the Saffir/Simpson Hurricane Scale
 to categorize hurricanes. This scale 
specifies that a Category 1 hurricane is a
 storm that originates in the tropics and 
results in either a sustained wind speed of
 at least 74 miles per hour or a storm 
surge of at least six feet above normal. 
This scale also sets forth criteria for 
Category 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 hurricanes, 
which have greater associated wind 
speeds and storm surges.

 
No other deductible in the policy applies to 
loss caused by windstorm.

 
All other provisions of this policy apply.

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
 
CCD 13 WDE 10 14 Includes Copyrighted Material of ISO, Inc. with its Permission

 
Page 1 of 1



 
 



 DWELLING
 DP 04 70 12 02
 

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
 

DP 04 70 12 02 © ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002 Page  1  of 1   
 

PREMISES ALARM OR FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM
 
We acknowledge the installation of an alarm system and/or automatic sprinkler system approved by us on the
Described Location. You agree to maintain this system or systems, for which we have granted a credit, in working
order and to let us know promptly of any change, including removal, made to the system(s). 


